2 
 
Code     Current Narrative  
 
N115 This decision is based on a local medical review policy (LMRP). An LMRP provides 
a guide to assist in determining whether a particular item or service is reasonable and 
necessary. A copy of this policy is available at www.LMRP.net 
 
N116 This payment is being made conditionall y because the service was provided in the 
home, and it is possible that the patient is under a home health episode of care.  
When a patient is treated under a home health episode of care, consolidated billing 
requires that certain therapy services and supplies, such as this, be included in the 
home health agency’s (HHA’s) payment.  This payment will need to be recouped 
from you if we establish that the patient is concurrently receiving treatment under an 
HHA episode of care. 
 
 
Modified Remark Codes 
 
M25 Payment has been (denied for the/made onl y for a less extensive) service because the 
information furnished does not substantiate the need for the (more extensive) service. 
If you believe the service should have been fully covered as billed, or if you did not 
know and could not reasonably have been expected to know that we would not pay 
for this (more extensive) service, or if you notified the patient in writing in advance 
that we would not pay for this (more extensive) service and he/she agreed in writing 
to pay, ask us to review your claim either within 6 months of the date of this notice, 
if this notice is dated September 30, 2002, or earlier, or within 120 days of the date of 
this notice, if this notice is dated Oct ober 1, 2002, or later. If you do not request a 
review, we will, upon application from the patient, reimburse him/her for the amount 
you have collected from him/her (for the/in excess of any deductible and coinsurance 
amounts applicable to the less extensive) service. We will recover the reimbursement 
from you as an overpayment.  
 
 M26 Payment has been (denied for the/made only for a less extensive) service because the 
information furnished does not substantiate the need for the (more extensive) service. 
If you have collected (any amount from the patient/any amount that exceeds the 
limiting charge for the less extensive serv ice), the law requires you to refund that 
amount to the patient within 30 days of receiving this notice. 
  
The law permits exceptions to the refund requirement in two cases: 
 
• If you did not know, and could not have reasonably been expected to know, that 
we would not pay for this service; or  
 
• If you notified the patient in writing before providing the service that you believed 
that we were likely to deny the service, and the patient signed a statement agreeing 
to pay for the service. 
   
  If you come within either exception, or if you believe the carrier was wrong in its 
determination that we do not pay for this service, you should request review of this 
determination within 30 days. Your request for review should include any additional 
information necessary to support your position. 
 
If you request review  within 30 days of receiving this notice, you may delay 
refunding the amount to the patient until you receive the results of the review.  If the 
review decision is favorable to you, you do not need to make any refund.  If, 
however, the review is unfavorable, the law specifies that you must make the refund 
within 15 days of receiving the unfavorable review decision.