4 
 
Code     Current Narrative 
 
 homebound or was not in need of intermittent  skilled nursing services, or a hospice 
care denial because the patient was not termin ally ill, and either the patient or the 
provider is liable under §1879 of the Social Security Act, and the patient chooses not 
to appeal.)   
 
 ( NOTE:  Carriers who issue telephone review decisions should add: If you meet the 
criteria for a telephone review, you should phone this office if you wish to request a 
telephone review.)  
 
MA02 (Initial Medicare Part A de termination)--If you do not agree with this determination, 
you have the right to appeal.  You must file a written request for a reconsideration 
within 60 days of the date of this notice, if this notice is dated September 30, 2002, or 
earlier or within 120 days of the date of this notice, if this notice is dated October 1, 
2002, or later.  Decisions made by a QIO must be appealed to that QIO within 60 
days. (An institutional provider, e.g., hospital, SNF, HHA or a hospice may appeal 
only if the claim involves a medical necessity denial, a SNF non-certified bed denial, 
or a home health denial because the patient was not homebound or was not in need of 
intermittent skilled nursing services, or a hospice care denial because the patient was 
not terminally ill, and either the patient or the provider is liable under §1879 of the 
Social Security Act, and the patient chooses not to appeal.) 
 
N103 Social Security records i ndicate that this beneficiary was a prisoner when the service 
was rendered.  Medicare does not cover items and services furnished to beneficiaries 
while they are in State or local custody under a penal authority, unless under State or 
local law, the beneficiary is personally liable  for the cost of his or her health care 
while incarcerated and the State or local government pursues such debt in the same 
way and with the same vigor as any other debt. 
 
Additionally, the following codes were modified before February 28, 2002, but were not included in   
Transmittal AB-02-067 (CR 1959). 
 
 
Code     Current Narrative  
 
MA49 Missing/Incomplete/invalid six-digit pr ovider number of home health agency or 
hospice for physician(s) performing care plan oversight services.  
 
MA50 Missing/Incomplete/inva lid Investigational Device Exemption number for FDA-
approved clinical trial services.  
 
MA51 Missing/Incomplete/invalid CLIA certification number for laboratory services billed 
by physician office laboratory. 
 
MA82 Did not complete or enter the correct physician/physici an assistant/nurse 
practitioner/clinical nurse specialist/s upplier's billing number/NPI and/or billing 
name, address, city, state, zip code, and phone number.  
 
MA112 Our records indicate that the performi ng physician/physician assistant/clinical nurse 
specialist/certified registered nurse anesth etist/anesthesia assistant/supplier/nurse 
practitioner is a member of a group practice; however, you did not complete or enter 
accurately the group’s name, address, zip code and their carrier assigned individual 
and group PINs.  (Substitute “NPI” for “PIN” when effective.)