3 
Code     Current Narrative 
 
The law also permits you to request review at any time within 6 months of the date of 
this notice, if this notice is dated September 30, 2002, or earlier or within 120 days of  
the date of this notice, if this notice is dated October 1, 2002, or later.  However, a 
review request that is received more than 30 days after the date of this notice, does 
not permit you to delay making the refund.  Regardless of when a review is 
requested, the patient will be notified that you have requested one, and will receive a 
copy of the determination. 
  
The patient has received a separate notice of this denial decision.  The notice advises 
that he/she may be entitled to a ref und of any amounts paid, if you should have 
known that we would not pay and did not tell him/her.  It also instructs the patient to 
contact your office if he/she does not hear anything about a refund within 30 days. 
 
The requirements for refund are in 1842(l) of the Social Security Act and 42 CFR 
411.408.  The section specifies that physicians who knowingly and willfully fail to 
make appropriate refunds may be subject to civil monetary penalties and/or exclusion 
from the program. 
 
   Please contact this office if you ha ve any questions about this notice. 
    
M27 The patient has been relieved of liabili ty of payment of these items and services 
under the limitation of liability provision of the law. You, the provider, are ultimately 
liable for the patient's waived charges, including any charges for coinsurance, since 
the items or services were not reasonable and necessary or constituted custodial care, 
and you knew or could reasonably have been expected to know, that they were not 
covered.   
  
You may appeal this determination provided that the patient does not exercise his/her 
appeal rights. If the beneficiary appeals the ini tial determination, you are 
automatically made a party to the appeals determination. If, however, the patient or 
his/her representative has stated in writing that he/she does not intend to request a   
reconsideration, or the patient's liability  was entirely waived in the initial 
determination, you may initiate an appeal. 
 
You may ask for a reconsideration for hospi tal insurance (or a review for medical 
insurance) regarding both the coverage determination and the issue of whether you 
exercised due care. The request for reconsideration must be filed within 60 days of 
the date of this notice, if this notice is dated September 30, 2002, or earlier or within 
120 days of the date of this notice, if this notice is dated October 1, 2002,  
or later (or, for a medical insurance review , within 6 months of the date of this 
notice, if this notice is dated September 30, 2002, or earlier or within 120 days of the 
date of this notice, if this notice is dated October 1, 2002, or later). You may make 
the request through any Social Security office or through this office.  
 
MA01 (Initial Part B determination, Medicare carrier or intermediary)--If you do not agree 
with what we approved for these services, you may appeal our decision.  To make 
sure that we are fair to you, we require another individual that did not process your 
initial claim to conduct the review.  However,  in order to be eligible for a review, 
you must write to us within 6 months of the date of this notice, if this notice is dated 
September 30, 2002, or earlier or within 120 days  of the date of this notice, if this 
notice is dated October 1, 2002, or later,  unless you have a good reason for being 
late.  
 
 ( NOTE:  An Intermediary must add: An institutional provider, e.g., hospital, SNF, 
HHA or hospice may appeal only if the claim involves a medical necessity denial, a 
SNF recertified bed denial, or a home health denial because the patient was not