Program Memorandum 
Department of Health & 
Human Services (DHHS)
Intermediaries/Carriers 
Centers for Medicare & 
Medicaid Services (CMS)
 
Transmittal   AB-02-142 
 
 
 
Date:  OCTOBER 18, 2002 
 
  CHANGE REQUEST 2395 
 
SUBJECT:   Remittance Advice Coding Update 
 
This Program Memorandum (PM) updates remark and reason codes for intermediaries, carriers and 
Durable Medical Equipment Regional Contractors (DMERCs).  
 
X12N 835 Health Care Remittance Advice Remark Codes   
 
CMS is the national maintainer of remittance advice remark codes used by both Medicare and non-
Medicare entities. Under the H ealth Insurance Portab ility and Accountability Act (HIPAA), all 
payers have to use reason and remark codes approved by X-12 r ecognized maintainers of those 
code sets instead of proprietary codes to explai n any adjustment in the payment. As a result, a 
significant number of remark code changes in the future will be requested by non-Medicare entities, 
and may not impact Medicare. Traditionally, rema rk code changes that impact Medicare are 
requested by Medicare staff in conjunction with a policy change. Contractors are notified of those 
new/modified codes in the corresponding implemen tation instructions in the form of a PM or 
manual instruction implementing the policy change, in addition to the regular code update PM. 
 
The list of remark codes is available at http://www.cms.hhs.gov/medicare/edi/hipaadoc.asp 
and http://www.wpc-edi.com/hipaa/, and the list is updated each March, July, and November.  By 
January 1, 2003,  you must have completed entry of all applicable code changes and new codes for 
use in production, and continue downloading from one of the above mentioned web sites every 4 
months to make sure that all Me dicare carriers, intermediaries, and DMERCs are using the latest 
approved remark codes as included in any CM S instructions in their 835 version 4010 and 
subsequent versions, and the corresponding sta ndard paper remittance advice transactions.  
Contractor and shared system changes must be made, as necessary, as  part of a routine release to 
reflect changes such as retirement of previously used codes or newly created codes that may impact 
Medicare.  
 
The following list summarizes changes made through June 30, 2002. 
 
New Remark Codes 
 
Code     Current Narrative    
     
N113 You or someone in your group practice ha s already submitted a claim for an initial 
visit for this beneficiary.  Medicare pays only once pe r beneficiary per physician, 
group practice, or provider for an initial visit. 
 
N114 During the transition to the Ambulance F ee Schedule, payment is based on the lesser 
of a blended amount calculated using a percentage of the reasonable charge/cost and 
fee schedule amounts, or the submitted charge for the service.  You will be notified 
yearly what the percentages for the blended payment calculation will be. 
 
 
 
 
CMS-Pub. 60AB