5 
 
X12 N 835 Health Care Claim Adjustment Reason Codes 
 
The Health Care Code Maintenance Committee maintains the health care claim adjustment reason 
codes. The Committee meets at the beginning of each X12 trimester meeting (February, June and 
October) and makes decisions about  additions, modifications, and retirement of existing reason 
codes. The updated list is posted three times a year after each X12 trimester meeting at 
http://www.wpc-edi.com/hipaa/. By January 1, 2003, you must have the most current reason code set 
installed for production, and continue downloading from the above mentioned web site every 4 
months to make sure that all Me dicare carriers, intermediaries, and DMERCs are using the latest 
approved reason codes in 835 and standard paper remittance advice transactions. 
 
In most cases, reason code additions, modifications and retirements are requested by non-Medicare 
entities, Medicare may occasionally request changes. If the request comes from Medicare, it may be 
included in a Medicare instruc tion in addition to the regular code update program memorandum. 
Code changes requested by entitie s other than Medicare would not  be routinely included in a 
Medicare instruction as part of a policy change, but modification or retirement of an existing code 
could impact Medicare. A PM will be issued on a periodic basis to provide a summary of changes in 
the reason and remark codes introduced since the last update PM, and will establish the deadline for 
Medicare contractors to implement the reason and remark code changes applicable to Medicare that 
may not already have been implemented as part of a previous Medicare policy change instruction.  
 
A reason code may be retired if it is no longer applicable or a similar code exists. Retirements are 
effective for a specified future and succeeding versions, but contractors also can discontinue use of 
retired codes in prior versions.  Contractors and shared system maintainers must modify their maps 
or programming as necessary by the date the speci fied electronic version or a higher numbered 
version is implemented or earlier if the replacing code is available for the earlier version(s), if a 
retired code is being used. 
 
The committee approved the following reason code changes in June 2002: 
 
New Reason Codes 
 
Code     Current Narrative 
 
145  Premium payment withholding 
 
146 Payment denied because the diagnosis was invalid for the date(s) of service 
reported. 
 
147        Provide contracted/nego tiated rate expired or not in file 
  
148        Claim/service rejected at this time because information from another provider 
was not provided or was insufficient/incomplete.   
 
Modified Reason Codes  
 
Code     Current Narrative 
 
 
6     The procedure/revenue code is inconsistent with the patient’s age. 
 
7     The procedure/revenue code is inconsistent with the patient’s gender. 
 
8     The procedure/revenue code is inconsistent with the provider 
type/specialty (taxonomy). 
 
108     Payment adjusted because rent /purchase guidelines were not met.