Front-end Revenue Cycle Collections
Prior to a patient arriving at a hospital, there are key steps to ensure a successful financial experience for both the patient 
and the revenue cycle personnel. Front-end revenue cycle processes ensure that patient information is correctly 
documented during encounters and when starting a financial account for the patient. By taking proactive steps to 
ensure information is collected properly, the time spent on registering patients will be reduced, patients will be aware of 
financial responsibilities, and financial key performance indicators will improve. 
Central scheduling has a major role in improving overall efficiencies within the patient access arena and in increasing 
patient satisfaction. When contacting a patient to verify demographics and discuss possible amounts owed due to 
the patient’s health plan, ensure the patient understands patient responsibilities in the billing process. This allows the 
patient to plan financially, and if necessary, discuss additional options with the treatment provider or ensure that the 
selected treatment option is coded correctly. 
Pre-registration and pre-authorization processes are often incorporated into the function of central scheduling. 
Hospitals can begin by identifying which services would be best suited for central scheduling to assist with (e.g., 
radiology) and which services are best suited for the department to maintain (e.g., surgery). Pre-authorizations assist the 
hospital overall, as they increase the number of claims being paid correctly and on time, and they proactively support 
coordination with clinical staff and utilization management.
Pre-registration Goals:
1. Contact the patient to:
 a. Ensure demographics are current and complete;   
 verify and update as needed.
 b. Document insurance and/or third-party liability   
 information for every encounter. 
 c. Discuss potential financial responsibilities of the   
 patient: 
  i.  Discuss applying for financial assistance or   
  repayment plan options.
  ii. Ensure that financial assistance program and
   repayment plan policies are in place and
   appropriate staff members are trained to collect
   additional information (e.g., tax returns, copies
   of bills, etc.).
 d. Advise the patient on what to expect when arriving 
  at the facility on the day of the appointment,
  including the need to verify insurance at registration. 
 e. Explain when copay and deductible amounts are   
 determined.
 f. Answer additional patient questions or concerns as  
 needed.  
Successfully incorporating front-end revenue cycle collections 
and pre-registration processes will lead to improvement with point-of-service collection, 
insurance payments, and patient satisfaction measures.
PAGE FIVE