About Western Healthcare Alliance:
Western Healthcare Alliance (WHA) began in 1989 when 
a small group of rural Colorado hospitals decided that 
there was power in numbers. Today, WHA celebrates over 
30 years of collaboration with 32 health care members in 
Colorado and Utah. In 2015, WHA formed the Community 
Care Alliance to provide a population health infrastructure 
for rural hospital and provider communities to learn and 
succeed in the new health care environment. Developing 
and managing a menu of member-owned and partner 
programs, WHA saves members money that helps them 
remain sustainable and viable in their communities. Learn 
more at www.wha1.org.
About Healthcare Management:
Healthcare Management (HCM) is proudly owned 
and managed by 21 rural hospitals and health care 
organizations who are also members of WHA. HCM 
provides revenue cycle services for rural and community 
hospitals, large health systems, physician groups, skilled 
nursing facilities, and more through its companies A-1 
Collection Agency and AR Services. Please contact Jo 
Ellen Hill if you have any questions. She can be reached at 
970.986.3600 and at Joellen.Hill@arservices.org. 
About Colorado Hospital Association: 
Colorado Hospital Association (CHA) is a leading voice 
of the Colorado hospital and health system community. 
Representing more than 100 hospitals and health systems 
throughout the state, CHA serves as a trusted, credible, 
and reliable resource on health issues, hospital data and 
trends, media, policymakers, and the public. Through CHA, 
Colorado’s hospitals and health systems work together in 
their shared commitment to improving health and health 
care in Colorado. Learn more at www.cha.com. 
About Colorado Center for the 
Advancement of Patient Safety:
As a grant-funded subsidiary of CHA, the Colorado Center 
for the Advancement of Patient Safety (CCAPS) has 
supported clinical quality programs for the Association’s 
members since 2007. The CCAPS team is composed 
of clinicians, quality professionals, clinical managers, 
project managers, and data analysists, many with direct 
experience working in hospitals. CCAPS provides support 
for pay-for-performance programs and works closely with 
the Association’s rural health and hospitals department, 
led by Benjamin Anderson, who can be reached at 
720.330.6011 and at Benjamin.Anderson@cha.com. 
About WHA, HCM, and CHA
PAGE TEN