Clinical Involvement with 
Revenue Cycle
Engagement with clinical staff is best practice, and 
leadership representatives for clinical areas should be 
included on the revenue cycle performance improvement 
team (e.g., chief nursing officer, nursing director, chief 
clinical officer, etc.). Clinical representation will inform 
revenue cycle leadership on clinical workflow processes 
that may be impacting key metrics and support 
improvement in these areas.  
One specific area that can be improved with help from 
clinical representation and hospital leadership is the 
Advanced Beneficiary Notice (ABN) process. ABNs are 
notices given to Medicare beneficiaries to notify them 
that a specific service may not be covered by insurance. 
This is often due to the coding of the service or diagnosis. 
Because of this, patient financial services and patient 
access leadership should monitor ABN notices and involve 
clinical representation and hospital leadership to identify 
next steps in resolving or reducing the number of ABNs. 
ABNs are completed at the time of registration and saved 
to a patient’s medical chart. If this process is not completed 
correctly, the hospital is responsible for writing off the 
charge of service. Leadership must increase education with 
physician and clinical teams regarding the importance of 
correct diagnosis for testing and how much revenue is lost 
due to incorrect information.
Clinical representatives should also be informed on 
all revenue cycle processes, with an emphasis on 
understanding the importance of correct and timely charge 
entry and quick responses to coding and documentation 
questions. For example, it is recommended that charges 
be entered within 24 hours of the service. Education 
about how revenue cycle processes are impacted when 
information is incorrect is an opportunity and should have 
a clinical champion and a leadership sponsor. 
Reference the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services 
(CMS) website for specific and up-to-date guidance on 
completing ABNs. Completion of the ABN should include 
the non-covered current procedural terminology (CPT) 
code, description, and charge amount. The patient must 
check one of the boxes on how they wish to proceed, 
sign, and date the document. If any of this information is 
incomplete, the ABN is not valid.
PAGE SIX