Introduction
The revenue cycle is made up of multiple processes to ensure a clean claim is submitted to payers for timely payment. 
These processes can begin before a patient arrives at the hospital and continue weeks to months after a patient leaves 
the hospital. Breaking down each revenue cycle process (FIGURE 1: REVENUE CYCLE LIFE CYCLE ) and measuring performance 
will lead to better financial outcomes. It is important to note that while revenue cycle processes are not all patient-facing 
processes, they will all impact patient perception of care, patient satisfaction, and are a deciding factor on where 
patients in the community seek care.
Four challenge areas that impact revenue cycle processes, 
hospital vitality, and ultimately patient experiences are 
outlined throughout this document. These four challenge 
areas can be used as starting points for hospital leaders 
to identify areas of opportunity and build out actionable 
next steps for improvement. 
Key Resources:  
National Rural Health Resource Center
• Small Rural Hospital and Clinic Finance 101 Manual
Institute for Healthcare Improvement
• Plan-Do-Study Act (PDSA) Worksheet
• Run Chart Tool
Partners
• Western Healthcare Alliance (WHA)
• Healthcare Management (HCM)
Patient
Centered
Care
Commonly Used T erms 
• Aged trial balance (ATB) report: A report commonly 
built into the hospital electronic medical record that can 
be automated.
• Advanced beneficiary notice (ABN): Notices given to 
Medicare beneficiaries to notify them that a specific 
service may not be covered by insurance.
• Bad debt: An expense that a hospital or business incurs 
that is estimated to be uncollectable.
• Clean claim rate: The rate at which insurance claims 
have passed all edits without manual intervention and 
have been successfully accepted by payers.
• Credit balances: An amount that will need to be 
researched and possibly refunded to a patient or 
insurance company.
 
• Current procedural terminology (CPT) code: A uniform code 
 used to identify and report medical services and procedures.
• Days in accounts receivable (A/R Days): A formula that 
indicates how long it takes to receive payment and clear 
accounts receivable.
• Days in accounts receivable greater than 90 days (A/R 
Days >90): An amount that indicates the accounts and 
dollars that are greater than 90 days.
• Discharged and no final bill (DNFB): Accounts that 
remain incomplete due to coding or documentation 
gaps.
• Discharged and no final charges (DNFC): Accounts that 
are waiting on charge completion.
• Financial assistance: Discounted medical care provided 
after patients are approved for assistance.
PAGE THREE
Scheduling, 
eligibility, 
pre-authorization, 
cost estimates
Registration,
eligibility, insurance
verification, co-pay
collections
A/R, patient
collections, denial
management,
contracts
management
Billing, claims
submission,
reimbursements,
posting
Charge
capture, clinical
documentation,
coding, utilization
management
FIGURE 1: Revenue Cycle Life Cycle