Days in Accounts Receivable 
Hospitals focus on days in accounts receivable (A/R Days) 
and days in accounts receivable greater than 90 days 
(A/R >90 Days) because these metrics directly impact 
the hospitals operating margin, and with ever-changing 
payment structures, this is a key measure for vitality of 
a rural hospital. Western Healthcare Alliance (WHA) and 
Healthcare Management (HCM) have the resources to 
assist rural hospitals with key metrics and aligning to 
industry standards. 
The first step in identifying how a hospital compares to 
benchmark standards is to review financial reports with 
hospital leaders to determine if standards are being met, 
need improvement, or are significantly below industry 
standard.
(Note that benchmark rates will vary depending on 
different organizational standards.)
Step 1: Run an aged trial balance report (ATB). This report should be built into the hospital electronic medical 
record and can be automated. 
Step 2: Analyze and trend by payer with oldest aging dates.
Step 3: Review the analysis.
3.1:  If the analysis shows commercial payers are outstanding:
 1. Pull contractual data for payers.
  a. If claims are out of timely filing, an action plan will be needed for possible write-offs. An   
   action plan is needed to prevent future timely filing denials.
   i. Before write-offs, determine what caused the timely filing denial (e.g., coding, insurance   
    information added late, etc.).
  b. If claims are still within the timely filing limit, status online and rebill as needed.
   i. Before rebilling a claim, determine why the claim was not accepted previously and   
    document the reason (e.g., incorrect payer ID, audit trail rejection, etc.). 
3.2:  If the analysis shows government payers are outstanding:
 1. Identify your highly skilled accounts receivable representatives to run a report and prioritize   
  claims by aged date, then rebill as needed.
  a. Do not rebill until it has been determined why the claim was not accepted previously. If a   
   claim was billed paper, it is recommended to send certified mail. 
Additional financial reports to review that will help in 
reducing A/R Days include bad debt, financial assistance, 
discharged and no final bill (DNFB), discharged and no final 
charges (DNFC), accounts waiting for coding, clean claim 
rate, and credit balances. Reference the revenue cycle 
score cards for benchmarking.
PAGE FOUR