Indicator Code Set 
9 ICD-9-CM diagnosis 
0 ICD-10-CM diagnosis 
 
Enter the indicator as a single digit between the vertical, dotted lines. 
 
• Do not report both ICD-9-CM and ICD-10-CM codes on the same claim form.  If 
there are services you wish to report that occurred on dates when ICD-9-CM 
codes were in effect, and others that occurred on dates when ICD-10-CM codes 
were in effect, then send separate claims such that you report only ICD-9-CM or 
only ICD-10-CM codes on the claim.  (See special considerations for spans of 
dates below.) 
 
• If you are submitting a claim with a span of dates for a service, use the “from” 
date to determine which ICD code set to use. 
 
• Enter up to 12 diagnosis codes.  Note that this information appears opposite lines 
with letters A-L.  Relate lines A- L to the lines of service in 24E by the letter of 
the line.  Use the highest level of specificity.  Do not provide narrative description 
in this field. 
 
• Do not insert a period in the ICD-9-CM or ICD-10-CM code. 
 
Item 22 - Leave blank.  Not required by Medicare. 
 
Item 23 - Enter the Quality Improvement Organization (QIO) prior authorization number 
for those procedures requiring QIO prior approval. 
 
Enter the Investigational Device Exemption (IDE) number when an investigational 
device is used in an FDA-approved clinical trial.  Post Market Approval number should 
also be placed here when applicable. 
 
For physicians performing care plan oversight services, enter the NPI of the home health 
agency (HHA) or hospice when CPT code G0181 (HH) or G0182 (Hospice) is billed. 
 
Enter the 10-digit Clinical Laboratory Improvement Act (CLIA) certification number for 
laboratory services billed by an entity performing CLIA covered procedures. 
 
For ambulance claims, enter the ZIP code of the loaded ambulance trip’s point-of-pickup. 
 
NOTE:  Item 23 can contain only one condition.  Any additional conditions should be 
reported on a separate CMS-1500 claim form. 
 
Item 24 - The six service lines in section 24 have been divided horizontally to 
accommodate submission of supplemental information to support the billed service.  The