• A code is received on a paper claim or a pre HIPAA compliant or any other 
electronic claim, and does not meet the required data attribute(s) for the HIPAA 
compliant 835, in which case, "gap filling" would be needed if it were to be 
inserted in a compliant 835. 
40.2 - Generating an ERA if Required Data is Missing or Invalid 
(Rev.) 
AB-02-067, A-02-070 
A.  Carriers/DMERCs 
The X12 835 IG contains specific data requirements, which must be met to build a 
HIPAA compliant ERA.  A claim could be received on paper, or in a pre HIPAA 
compliant X12 835 or other electronic format that lacks data or has data that does not 
meet the data attributes or length requirements for preparation of a HIPAA-compliant 
ERA.  If not rejected as a result of standard or IG level editing, a carrier/DMERC must 
either send an SPR advice or a "gap filled" ERA to avoid noncompliance with HIPAA. 
For example, if a procedure code is sent with only four characters and the code set 
specified in the IG includes five character codes in the data element, and the code is not 
rejected by the front end and/or pre-pass edits, the claim would be denied due to the 
invalid procedure code.  Preparation of an ERA with too few characters though would not 
comply with the IG requirements.  The noncompliant ERA could be rejected by the 
receiver. 
The shared system maintainers, working in conjunction with their contractors, must 
decide whether to generate an SPR, which is not covered by HIPAA, or to "gap fill" in 
this situation, depending on system capability and cost.  Except in some very rare 
situations, "gap filling" would be expected to be the preferred solution.  To "gap fill”, the 
shared systems must enter meaningless characters to meet the data element minimum 
length requirements in any outgoing X12 transaction if insufficient data is available for 
entry in a required data element.  Shared system maintainers must work with their 
respective users to determine which characters will be used to gap fill required data 
elements.  The selected meaningless character(s) must also meet the data requirements of 
the data elements where used, e.g., be alphanumeric (AN), decimal (R), identifier (ID), 
date (DT), or another data type as appropriate.  The values may not include any special 
characters, low values, high values, or all spaces since this could result in translation 
problems.  The contractors must notify the trading partners, if and when their files are 
affected, as to when and why these characters will appear in an 835. 
 7