update each internal code that may be impacted by a remittance advice reason/remark 
code change to eliminate the need for lengthy and error prone manual carrier and 
intermediary searches to identify each affected internal code.  Standard systems must also 
make sure that 5-position remark codes can be accommodated at both the claim and 
service level for version 4010 onwards. 
The effective date of programming for use of new or modified reason/remark codes 
applicable to Medicare is the earlier of the date specified in the contractor manual 
transmittal or program memorandum (PM) requiring implementation of a policy change 
that led to the issuance of the new or modified code, or the date specified in the periodic 
PM announcing issuance of the code changes (additions/modifications/retirements).  
Contractors must notify providers of the new and/or modified codes and their meanings 
in a provider bulletin or other instructional release prior to issuance of remittance advice 
transactions that include these changes. 
A code may not be reported in a new remittance advice after the effective date of its 
retirement.  If processing an adjustment involving a code that was retired after generation 
of the original remittance advice, the reversed claim may report the currently valid code 
supplanting the code that appeared in the initial notice.  If easier from a mapping or 
programming perspective, an intermediary or carrier has the option to eliminate use of a 
retired code in each supported remittance advice versions, including those that pre-date 
the effective date of the retirement. 
60.2 - Remittance Advice Remark Codes 
(Rev.) 
AB-02-142, AB-01-132, AB-02-067, AB-03-012 
Remark codes are used in a remittance advice to further explain an adjustment or relay 
informational messages that cannot be expressed with a claim adjustment reason code.  
Remark codes are maintained by CMS, but may be used by any health care payer when 
they apply.  Medicare contractors must report any remark codes that apply, subject to 
capacity limits in the standard. 
Most remark codes were initially separated into service level (line level) and claim level 
categories.  Some of the same messages were included in both categories.  To simplify 
remark code use, these categories have been eliminated.  Any remark code may now be 
reported at the service or the claim level, as applicable, in any electronic or paper 
remittance advice version.  To eliminate duplication, the following remark code messages 
have been made inactive and should no longer be used effective with implementation of 
version 4010 of the X12 835: 'M34' (duplicates 'MA120'), 'M72' (duplicates 'MA52'), 
'MA05' (information included in 'MA30', or 'MA40', or 'MA43'),  'N41' (duplicates reason 
code '39'), and 'N44' (duplicates reason code '137'). 
Rather than renumber existing 'M' (prior service level) and 'MA' (prior claim level) codes, 
and possibly confuse providers, old code numbers have been retained.  All new post-
consolidation remark codes, however, will begin with an 'N'.  The 'N' is used to quickly 
 
73