• Ambulance services; 
 
• Drugs and biologicals; and 
 
• Simplified Billing Roster for influenza virus vaccine and pneumococcal vaccine. 
 
Item 28 - Enter total charges for the services (i.e., total of all charges in item 24f). 
 
Item 29 - Enter the total amount the patient paid on the covered services only. 
 
Item 30 - Leave blank.  Not required by Medicare. 
 
Item 31 - Enter the signature of provider of service or supplier, or his/her representative, 
and either the 6-digit date (MM | DD | YY), 8-digit date (MM | DD | CCYY), or alpha-
numeric date (e.g., January 1, 1998) the form was signed. 
 
In the case of a service that is provided incident to the service of a physician or non-
physician practitioner, when the ordering physician or non-physician practitioner is 
directly supervising the service as in 42 CFR 410.32, the signature of the ordering 
physician or non-physician practitioner shall be entered in item 31.  When the ordering 
physician or non-physician practitioner is not supervising the service, then enter the 
signature of the physician or non-physician practitioner providing the direct supervision 
in item 31. 
 
NOTE:  This is a required field; however, the claim can be processed if the following is 
true:  if a physician, supplier, or authorized person's signature is missing, but the 
signature is on file; or if any authorization is attached to the claim or if the signature field 
has "Signature on File" and/or a computer generated signature. 
 
Item 32 - For services payable under the physician fee schedule and anesthesia services, 
enter the name and address, and ZIP code of the facility if the services were furnished in 
a hospital, clinic, laboratory, or facility other than the patient's home or physician's office.  
Effective for claims received on or after April 1, 2004, enter the name, address, and ZIP 
code of the service location for all services other than those furnished in place of service 
home - 12.  Effective for claims received on or after April 1, 2004, only one name, 
address and ZIP code may be entered in the block.  If additional entries are needed, 
separate claim forms shall be submitted.  Effective January 1, 2011, for claims processed 
on or after January 1, 2011, submission of the location where the service was rendered 
will be required for all POS codes. 
 
Providers of service (namely physicians) shall identify the supplier's name, address, and 
ZIP code when billing for anti-markup tests.  When more than one supplier is used, a 
separate CMS-1500 claim form shall be used to bill for each supplier.  (See Pub. 100-04, 
chapter 1, §10.1.1.2 for more information on payment jurisdiction for claims subject to 
the anti-markup limitation.)