associated business under the same corporate umbrella for supplemental services 
or software; 
• Contractors send the 835 to providers over a wire connection.  They do not use 
tapes or diskettes; 
• Intermediaries allow providers to receive a hard copy remittance in addition to the 
835 during the first 30 days of receiving ERAs and during other testing.  After 
that time, intermediaries do not send a hard copy version of the 835, in addition to 
the electronic transmission, in production mode.  They should contact CMS if this 
requirement causes undue hardship on a particular intermediary provider; 
• Contractors may release an ERA prior to the payment date, but never later than 
the payment date; 
• Ensure that their provider file accommodates the data necessary to affect EFT, 
either through use of the ACH or the 835 format.  The abbreviated 835 contains 
no beneficiary-specific information; therefore, it may be used to initiate EFT and 
may be carried through the banking networks. 
• Pay the costs of transmitting EFT through their bank to the ACH.  Payees are 
responsible for the telecommunications costs of EFT from the ACH to their bank, 
as well as the costs of receiving 835 data once in production mode; and 
• Provide for sufficient back-up to allow for retransmission of garbled or 
misdirected transmissions. 
Every X12 835 transaction issued by an intermediary or carrier/DMERC must comply 
with the implementation guide (IG) requirements (see §40.4), i.e., each required segment 
must be reported, each required or applicable situational data element in a required or 
situational segment must be reported, and the data in a data element must meet the 
minimum length and data attribute (AN, ID, R, etc.) specifications in the implementation 
guide. 
Back end validation must be performed to ensure that these conditions are met.  Carriers, 
DMERCs, and intermediaries are not required to validate codes maintained by their 
standard systems, such as Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System (HCPCS), that 
are issued in their standard system's flat file for use in the body of an 835, but they are 
required to validate data in the 835 envelope as well as the codes that they maintain, such 
as claim adjustment reason codes, that are reported in the 835.  Medicare contractors do 
not need to re-edit codes or other data validated during the claim adjudication process 
during this back end validation.  Valid codes are to be used in the flat file, unless: 
• A service is being denied or rejected using an 835 for submission of an invalid 
code, in which case the invalid code must be reported on the 835; 
• A code was valid when received, but was discontinued by the time the 835 is 
issued, in which case, the received code must be reported on the 835; or 
 6