C.F.R. 
413.65.  Physicians shall use POS code 11 (office) when services are performed 
in a separately maintained physician office space in the hospital or on the 
hospital campus and that physician office space is not considered a provider-
based department of the hospital. Use of POS code 11(office) in the hospital 
outpatient department or on hospital campus is subject to the physician self-
referral provisions set forth in 42 C.F.R 411.353 through 411.357. 
 
• Special Consideration for Ambulatory Surgical Centers (Code 24) 
 
When a physician/practitioner furnishes services to a patient in a Medicare- 
participating ambulatory surgical center (ASC), the POS code 24 (ASC) shall 
be used. 
 
NOTE: Physicians/practitioners who perform services in an ASC shall use 
POS code 24 (ASC). Physicians/practitioners are not to use POS code 11 
(office) for ASC based services unless the physician has an office at the same 
physical location of the ASC, which meets all other requirements for operating 
as a physician office at the same physical location as the ASC – including 
meeting the “distinct entity” criteria defined in the ASC State Operations 
Manual that precludes the ASC and an adjacent physician office from being 
open at the same time -- and the physician service was actually performed in the 
office suite portion of the facility. 
 
See Pub 100-07, Medicare State Operations Manual, Appendix L - Guidance 
for Surveyors: Ambulatory Surgical Centers for a complete set of applicable 
ASC definitions, basic requirements, and conditions of coverage. It is 
available at the following link: 
http://www.cms.gov/manuals/Downloads/som107ap_l_ambulatory.pdf 
 
• Special Considerations for Hospice (Code 34) 
 
When a physician/practitioner furnishes services to a patient under the 
hospice benefit, use the following guidelines to identify the appropriate 
POS. 
 
When a beneficiary is in an “inpatient” respite or general “inpatient” care stay, 
the POS code 34 (hospice) shall be used. When a beneficiary who has elected 
coverage under the Hospice benefit is receiving inpatient hospice care in a 
hospital, SNF, or hospice inpatient facility, POS code 34 (Hospice) shall be 
used to designate the POS on the claim. 
 
For services provided to a hospice beneficiary in an outpatient setting, such as 
the physician/nonphysician practitioner’s office (POS 11); the beneficiary’s 
home (POS 12), i.e., not operated by the hospice; or other outpatient setting 
(e.g., off campus-outpatient hospital (POS 19) or on campus-outpatient hospital