nonphysician practitioner of the therapy plan of care be entered as the referring 
physician in Items 17 and 17b. 
 
Item 17a - Leave blank. 
 
Item 17b - Enter the NPI of the referring, ordering, or supervising physician or non-
physician practitioner listed in item 17.  All physicians and non-physician practitioners 
who order services or refer Medicare beneficiaries must report this data. 
 
NOTE:  Effective May 23, 2008, 17a is not to be reported but 17b MUST be reported 
when a service was ordered or referred by a physician. 
 
Item 18 - Enter either an 8-digit (MM | DD | CCYY) or a 6-digit (MM | DD | YY) date 
when a medical service is furnished as a result of, or subsequent to, a related 
hospitalization. 
 
Item 19 - Enter either a 6-digit (MM | DD | YY) or an 8-digit (MM | DD | CCYY) date 
patient was last seen and the NPI of his/her attending physician when a physician 
providing routine foot care submits claims. 
 
NOTE:  Effective May 23, 2008, all provider identifiers submitted on the CMS-1500 
claim form MUST be in the form of an NPI. 
 
Enter either a 6-digit (MM | DD | YY) or an 8-digit (MM | DD | CCYY) x-ray date for 
chiropractor services (if an x-ray, rather than a physical examination was the method used 
to demonstrate the subluxation).  By entering an x-ray date and the initiation date for 
course of chiropractic treatment in item 14, the chiropractor is certifying that all the 
relevant information requirements (including level of subluxation) of Pub. 100-02, 
Medicare Benefit Policy Manual, chapter 15, is on file, along with the appropriate x-ray 
and all are available for A/B MAC (B) review. 
 
Instructions for Not Otherwise Classified (NOC) Codes – Any unlisted services or 
procedure code.  Note: When reporting NOC codes, this field must be populated as 
specified below.  
 
Enter the drug's name and dosage when submitting a claim for NOC drugs. 
 
Enter a concise description of an "unlisted procedure code" or a NOC code if one can be 
given within the confines of this box.  Otherwise an attachment shall be submitted with 
the claim. 
   
When billing for unlisted laboratory tests using a NOC code, this field MUST include the 
specific name of the laboratory test(s) and/or a short descriptor of the test(s).  Claims for 
unlisted laboratory tests that are received without this information shall be treated 
according to the requirements found in Pub. 100-04, Medicare Claims Processing 
Manual, Chapter 1, Section 80.3.2 and “returned as unprocessable.” Section 216(a) of the