differentiate remark codes from claim adjustment reason codes.  Remark codes that apply 
at the service level must be reported in the X12 835 LQ segment.  Remark codes that 
apply to an entire claim must be reported in either an X12 835 MIA (inpatient) or MOA 
(noninpatient) segment, as applicable.   
The list of Remittance Advice Remark Codes can be found at  
http://www.wpc-edi.com/Remittance_40.asp and  
http://www.cms.hhs.gov/providers/edi/hipaadoc.asp.  The remark code list is updated 
every four months, and the updated list is posted each March, July, and November.  
Medicare contractors must download the updated list every four months to make sure 
they are using the latest approved remark codes as included in any CMS instructions in 
their 835 and the corresponding standard paper remittance advice transactions.  
Contractor and shared system changes must be made, as necessary, as part of a routine 
release to reflect changes such as retirement of previously used codes or newly created 
codes that may impact Medicare. 
60.3 - Group Codes 
(Rev.) 
MCM 7030.2 
A group code is a code identifying the general category of payment adjustment.  A group 
code must always be used in conjunction with a claim adjustment reason code to show 
liability for amounts not covered by Medicare or to identify a correction or reversal of a 
prior decision.  Contractors have discretion as to which group and reason codes, value, 
and remark codes and messages are appropriate for use, according to the decision you 
make on a service or a claim, within the Medicare coverage, payment, development and 
appeal parameters.  Contractors do not have discretion to omit appropriate codes and 
messages.  Contractors must use claim adjustment reason codes, group codes, value 
codes and remark codes and messages when they apply.  Contractors must print an appeal 
code and message on the remittance notice for every  claim.  Contractors must use a 
limitation of liability code and message and a coordination of benefits code and message 
where applicable. 
Valid Group Codes for use on Medicare claims: 
PR (Patient Responsibility Adjustment) - Any adjustment where the patient will 
be assuming or has assumed financial responsibility. 
CR (Correction) - Change to a previously processed claim. 
OA (Other adjustment) - Any other adjustment.  Do not include any adjustment 
for which the patient or provider has financial liability. 
CO (Contractual Obligations) – Payment adjustment where the provider did not 
meet a program requirement and is financial liability. 
 
74