If a claim lacks a valid place of service (POS) code in item 24b, or contains an invalid 
POS in item 24b, return the claim as unprocessable to the provider or supplier, using 
Group Code CO, Claim Adjustment Remark Code (CARC) 16, and Remittance Advice 
Remark Code (RARC) M77.  Effective for claims received on or after April 1, 2004, only 
one POS may be submitted on the Form CMS-1500 for services paid under the MPFS 
and anesthesia services.  If the place of service is missing and the MAC cannot infer the 
place of service from the procedure code billed (e.g., a procedure code for which the 
definition is not site specific or which can be performed in more than one setting), then 
return services as unprocessable. 
 
If place of service is inconsistent with procedure code billed, then edit for consistency or 
compatibility between the place of service and site-specific procedure codes.  If the place 
of service is valid but inconsistent or incompatible with the procedure billed (e.g., the 
place of service is inpatient hospital and the procedure code billed is office visit), then 
return services as unprocessable since the MAC typically will not know whether the 
procedure code or the place of service is incorrect in such instances.  If place of service is 
invalid, then edit for the validity of the place of service coding.  If the place of service 
code is not valid (e.g., the number designation has not been assigned or defined by CMS), 
then return services as unprocessable. 
 
10.7 - Type of Service (TOS) 
(Rev. 2814, Issued: 11-15-13, Effective: 01-01-14, Implementation: 01-06-14) 
 
Medicare Administrative Contractors (MACs) must assign the proper TOS using the 
annual HCPCS update from the CMS mainframe.  Changes to this list are issued annually 
via a Recurring Update Notification.  Some procedures may have more than one 
applicable TOS.  For claims received on or after April 3, 1995, CWF produced alerts on 
codes with incorrect TOS designations.  Effective July 3, 1995, CWF began rejecting 
codes with incorrect TOS designations. 
 
The only exceptions to this annual update are: 
 
• Surgical services billed for dates of service through December 31, 2007, 
containing the ASC facility service modifier SG must be reported as TOS F.  
Effective for services on or after January 1, 2008, the SG modifier is no longer 
applicable for Medicare services.  ASC providers should discontinue applying the 
SG modifier on ASC facility claims.  The indicator ‘F’ does not appear in the 
TOS table because its use depends upon claims submitted with POS 24 (ASC 
Facility) from an ASC (specialty 49).  This became effective for dates of service 
January 1, 2008 and after. 
 
• Surgical services billed with an assistant-at-surgery modifier (80-82, AS) must be 
reported with TOS 8.  The 8 indicator does not appear on the TOS table because 
its use is dependent upon the use of the appropriate modifier.  (See Pub. 100-04,