o The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 
(HIPAA) became effective October 16, 2003, for all covered entities. 
Medicare is a covered entity under HIPAA. 
 
o The final rule, “Health Insurance Reform: Standards for Electronic 
Transactions,” published in the Federal Register, August 17, 2000, 
adopts the standards to be used under HIPAA and names the 
implementation guides to be used for these standards.  The ASC X12N 
837 professional is the standard to be used for transmitting health care 
claims electronically, and its implementation guide requires the use of 
POS codes from the National POS code set, currently maintained by 
CMS. 
 
o As a covered entity, Medicare must use the POS codes from the 
National POS code set for processing its electronically submitted 
claims. Medicare must also recognize as valid POS codes from the POS 
code set when these codes appear on such a claim. 
 
o Medicare must recognize and accept POS codes from the 
national POS code set in terms of HIPAA compliance. Note 
special considerations for Homeless Shelter (code 04), Indian 
Health Service (codes 05, 06), Tribal 638 (codes 07, 08), and 
09 Prison/Correctional Facility settings, describe below. 
Where there is no national policy for a given POS code, local 
contractors may work with their medical directors to develop 
local policy regarding the services payable in a given setting, 
and this could include creating a crosswalk to an existing 
setting if desired. However, local contractors must pay for the 
services at either the facility or the nonfacility rate as 
designated below. In addition, local contractors, when 
developing policy, must ensure that they continue to pay 
appropriate rates for services rendered in the new setting; if 
they choose to create a crosswalk from one setting to another, 
they must crosswalk a facility rate designated code to another 
facility rate designated code, and a nonfacility rate designated 
code to another nonfacility rate designated code. For 
previously issued POS codes for which a crosswalk was 
mandated, and for which no other national Medicare directive 
has been issued, local contractors may elect to continue to use 
the crosswalk or develop local policy regarding the services 
payable in the setting, including another crosswalk, if 
appropriate. If a local contractor develops local policy for 
these settings, but later receives specific national instructions 
for these codes, the local contractors shall defer to and 
comply with the newer instructions. (Note: While, effective