Item 24J - Enter the rendering provider’s NPI number in the lower unshaded portion.  In 
the case of a service provided incident to the service of a physician or non-physician 
practitioner, when the person who ordered the service is not supervising, enter the NPI of 
the supervisor in the lower unshaded portion. 
 
This unprocessable instruction does not apply to influenza virus and pneumococcal 
vaccine claims submitted on roster bills as they do not require a rendering provider NPI. 
 
NOTE:  Effective May 23, 2008, the shaded portion of 24J is not to be reported. 
 
Item 25 - Enter the provider of service or supplier Federal Tax ID (Employer 
Identification Number or Social Security Number) and check the appropriate check box. 
Medicare providers are not required to complete this item for crossover purposes since 
the Medicare contractor will retrieve the tax identification information from their internal 
provider file for inclusion on the COB outbound claim.  However, tax identification 
information is used in the determination of accurate National Provider Identifier 
reimbursement.  Reimbursement of claims submitted without tax identification 
information will/may be delayed. 
 
Item 26 - Enter the patient's account number assigned by the provider's of service or 
supplier's accounting system.  This field is optional to assist the provider in patient 
identification.  As a service, any account numbers entered here will be returned to the 
provider. 
 
Item 27 - Check the appropriate block to indicate whether the provider of service or 
supplier accepts assignment of Medicare benefits.  If Medigap is indicated in item 9 and 
Medigap payment authorization is given in item 13, the provider of service or supplier 
shall also be a Medicare participating provider of service or supplier and accept 
assignment of Medicare benefits for all covered charges for all patients. 
 
The following providers of service/suppliers and claims can only be paid on an 
assignment basis: 
 
• Clinical diagnostic laboratory services; 
 
• Physician services to individuals dually entitled to Medicare and Medicaid; 
 
• Participating physician/supplier services; 
 
• Services of physician assistants, nurse practitioners, clinical nurse specialists, 
nurse midwives, certified registered nurse anesthetists, clinical psychologists, and 
clinical social workers; 
 
• Ambulatory surgical center services for covered ASC procedures; 
 
• Home dialysis supplies and equipment paid under Method II;