in CY 2024 are POS 02 and POS 10. As appropriate, POS 02 or POS 10 may 
be used and must be paired with the appropriate telehealth modifier (modifier 
93 for audio-only and modifier 95 for audio/video). The payment rate for 
POS 02 is the facility payment rate (F); the payment rate for POS 10 is the 
non-facility rate (NF). Use of audio-only (93) or audio-video (95) does not 
change rate of payment, only the POS code determines the non-facility or 
facility payment rate. 
 
• Special Considerations for Homeless Shelter (Code 04) 
 
Note that for the purposes of receiving durable medical equipment 
(DME), a homeless shelter is considered the beneficiary’s home. 
Because DME is payable in the beneficiary’s home, the crosswalk 
for Homeless Shelter (code 04) to Office (code 11) that was 
mandated effective January 1, 2003, may need to be adjusted or local 
policy developed so that HCPCS codes for DME are covered when 
other conditions are met and the beneficiary is in a homeless shelter. 
If desired, local contractors are permitted to work with their medical 
directors to determine a new crosswalk such as from Homeless 
Shelter (code 04) to Home (code 12) or Custodial Care Facility 
(code 33) for DME provided in a homeless shelter setting. If a local 
contractor is currently paying claims correctly, however, it is not 
necessary to change the current crosswalk. 
 
• Special Considerations for Indian Health Service (Codes 05, 06) and 
Tribal 638 Settings (Codes 07, 08) 
 
Medicare does not currently use the POS codes designated for these settings. 
Follow the instructions you have received regarding how to process claims for 
services rendered in IHS and Tribal 638 settings. If you receive claims with 
these codes, you must initially accept them in terms of HIPAA compliance. 
However, follow your “return as unprocessable” procedures after this initial 
compliance check. Follow your “return as unprocessable" procedures when you 
receive paper claims with these codes. (Note that while these codes became part 
of the National POS code set effective January 1, 2003, Medicare contractors 
received instructions regarding how to process claims with these codes effective 
October 1, 2003, so that Medicare could be HIPAA compliant by October 16, 
2003). 
 
• Special Considerations for Mobile Unit Settings (Code 15) 
 
When services are furnished in a mobile unit, they are often provided to serve 
an entity for which another POS code exists. For example, a mobile unit may be 
sent to a physician’s office or a skilled nursing facility. If the mobile unit is 
serving an entity for which another POS code already exists, providers should 
use the POS code for that entity. However, if the mobile unit is not serving an