Protecting Access to Medicare Act of 2014 (PAMA) requires reporting entities to report 
private payor payment rates for laboratory tests and the corresponding volumes of 
tests.  In compliance with PAMA, CMS must collect private payor data on unique tests 
currently being paid as a NOC code, Not Otherwise Specified (NOS) code, or unlisted 
service or procedure code.  
 
Enter all applicable modifiers when modifier -99 (multiple modifiers) is entered in item 
24d.  If modifier -99 is entered on multiple line items of a single claim form, all 
applicable modifiers for each line item containing a -99 modifier should be listed as 
follows: 1=(mod), where the number 1 represents the line item and "mod" represents all 
modifiers applicable to the referenced line item. 
 
Enter the statement "Homebound" when an independent laboratory obtains a specimen 
from a homebound or institutionalized patient.  (See Pub. 100-02, Medicare Benefit 
Policy Manual, Chapter 15, "Covered Medical and Other Health Services," and Pub. 100-
04, Medicare Claims Processing Manual, Chapter 16, "Laboratory Services,” and Pub. 
100-01, Medicare General Information, Eligibility, and Entitlement Manual, Chapter 5, 
"Definitions," respectively, for the definition of "homebound" and a more complete 
definition of a medically necessary laboratory service to a homebound or an institutional 
patient.) 
 
Enter the statement, "Patient refuses to assign benefits," when the beneficiary absolutely 
refuses to assign benefits to a non-participating physician/supplier who accepts 
assignment on a claim.  In this case, payment can only be made directly to the 
beneficiary. 
 
Enter the statement, "Testing for hearing aid" when billing services involving the testing 
of a hearing aid(s) is used to obtain intentional denials when other payers are involved. 
 
When dental examinations are billed, enter the specific surgery for which the exam is 
being performed. 
 
Enter the specific name and dosage amount when low osmolar contrast material is billed, 
but only if HCPCS codes do not cover them. 
 
Enter a 6-digit (MM | DD | YY) or an 8-digit (MM | DD | CCYY) assumed and/or 
relinquished date for a global surgery claim when providers share post-operative care. 
 
Enter demonstration ID number "30" for all national emphysema treatment trial claims. 
 
Enter demonstration ID number “56” for all national Laboratory Affordable Care Act 
Section 113 Demonstration Claims. 
 
Enter the NPI of the physician who is performing the technical or professional 
component of a diagnostic test that is subject to the anti-markup payment limitation.  (See 
Pub. 100-04, chapter 1, section 30.2.9 for additional information.)