This form is used only by beneficiaries (or their representatives) who complete and file 
their own claims.  It contains the patient’s comparable items of data that are on the Form 
CMS-1500.  When the Form CMS-1490S is used, an itemized bill must be submitted 
with the claim.  Some enrollees may want to keep the original itemized physician and 
supplier bills for income tax or complementary insurance purposes.  Photocopies of 
itemized bills are acceptable for Medicare deductible and payment purposes if there is no 
evidence of alteration.  Social Security offices use the Form CMS-1490S when assisting 
beneficiaries in filing Part B Medicare claims. 
 
Although §1848(g)(4) of the Act requires physicians and suppliers to submit Part B 
Medicare claims for services furnished on or after September 1, 1990, contractors 
continue to accept, process, and pay for covered services submitted by beneficiaries on a 
Form CMS-1490S if there is no clear indication that the service provider intends to file a 
claim.  An itemized bill for services on or after September 1, 1990, which clearly 
indicates the physician or supplier intends to file a Part B claim for the patient, may be 
returned to the beneficiary. 
 
For Medicare covered services received on or after September 1, 1990, the Form CMS-
1490S is used by beneficiaries to submit Part B claims only if the service provider refuses 
to do so or if one of the following situations applies: 
 
• DME purchases from private sources; 
 
• Cases in which a physician/supplier does not possess information essential for 
filing an MSP claim.  Assume this is the case if the beneficiary files an MSP 
claim and encloses the primary insurer's payment determination notice and there 
is no indication that the service provider was asked to file but refused to do so; 
 
• Services paid under the indirect payment procedure; 
 
• Foreign claims; 
 
• Services furnished by sanctioned physicians and suppliers which are approved for 
payment to the beneficiary per the Program Integrity Manual (PIM); and 
 
• Other unusual or unique situations that are evaluated on a case-by-case basis. 
 
If the contractor approves 11 or more Form CMS-1490S claims in a calendar month for 
services performed on or after September 1, 1990, by the same physician or supplier, 
monitor the provider's claims submissions and take appropriate action. 
 
The contractor continues to stock Form CMS-1490S and, upon request, furnish 
beneficiaries with these forms. (Beneficiaries need these forms to file claims for services 
that physicians/suppliers are not required to submit (e.g., services prior to September 1, 
1990), or refuse to submit to Part B on their behalf.)