POS code 21, for inpatient hospital, is correct.  In this example, the POS code reflects a 
different setting than the address and ZIP code of the practice location (the physician’s 
office).  
 
For MPFS payment purposes the determinant of payment is the locality where the 
physician or supplier furnished the service.  Medicare has both facility and non-facility 
designations for services paid under the physician fee schedule.  In accordance with 
Chapter 1, Section 10.1.1 (Payment Jurisdiction Among Local Medicare Administrative 
Contractors (MACs) for Services Paid Under the Physician Fee Schedule and Anesthesia 
Services) of this manual, the jurisdiction for processing a request for payment for services 
paid under the MPFS is governed by the payment locality where the physician or supplier 
furnished the service and will be based on the ZIP code.  CMS requires that the address 
and ZIP code of the physician’s practice location be placed on the claim form in order to 
determine the appropriate locality -- item 32 on the paper claim Form CMS 1500 or in the 
corresponding loop on its electronic equivalent. 
 
For specific POS instructions and determination of the applicable payment locality for the 
PC (professional interpretation) and the TC of diagnostic tests see chapter 13, section 150 
of this manual.  For general policy on POS code assignment, see chapter 12, section 
20.4.2 of this manual regarding the site of service payment differential under MPFS.  
 
If the physician bills for lab services performed in his/her office, the POS code for 
"Office" is shown.  If the physician bills for a lab test furnished by another physician, 
who maintains a lab in his/her office, the code for "Other" is shown.  If the physician bills 
for a lab service furnished by an independent lab, the code for "Independent Laboratory" 
is used.  Items 21 and 22 on the Form CMS-1500 must be completed for all laboratory 
work performed outside a physician's office.  If an independent lab bills, the place where 
the sample was taken is shown.  An independent laboratory taking a sample in its 
laboratory shows "81" as place of service.  If an independent laboratory bills for a test on 
a sample drawn on an inpatient or outpatient of a hospital, it uses the code for the 
inpatient (POS code 21), off campus-outpatient hospital (POS code 19), or on campus-
outpatient hospital (POS code 22), respectively. 
 
For hospital visits by physicians, presume, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, that 
visits billed for were made.  However, review a sample of physician's records when there 
are questionable patterns of utilization.  Confirm these visits where the medical facts do 
not support the frequency of the physician's visits or in cases of beneficiary complaints.  
 
If questioning whether the visit had been made, ascertain whether the physician's own 
entry is in the patient's record at the provider.  Accept an entry where the nurses' notes 
indicate that the physician saw the patient on a given day.  A statement by the beneficiary 
is also acceptable documentation if it was made close to the alleged date of the visit.  
Entries in the physician's records represent possible secondary evidence. However, these 
are of less value since they are self-serving statements.  Exercise judgment regarding 
their authenticity.  The policy requiring daily physician visits is not conclusive if, in the 
individual case, the facts did not support a finding that daily visits were made.