40 - Electronic Remittance Advice 
(Rev.) 
A3-3750 
Electronic Remittance Advice (ERA) transactions must be produced in the current 
HIPAA compliant Accredited Standards Committee (ASC) X12 835 format.  Directions 
for version updates are posted when necessary in program memoranda issued by CMS.  
Refer to http://www.wpc-edi.com/HIPAA for implementation guides, record formats, and 
data dictionaries for the 835. 
Shared systems maintainers must provide appropriate provider file structures and 
switching mechanisms so that contractors can select and generate the abbreviated 835 
and/or the automated clearing house (ACH) format when electronic funds transfer (EFT) 
applies.  See the implementation guides for further information on the abbreviated 835 
and use of the 835 for EFT. 
Changes to content and format of ERAs may not be made by individual contractors.  
Changes will be made only by shared system maintainers, and then, only as directed by 
CMS. 
40.1 - ANSI ASC X12 835 
(Rev.) 
A3-3750, AB-02-067, A-02-070 
The 835 is a variable-length record designed for wire transmission and is not suitable for 
use in application programs.  Therefore, shared systems generate a flat file version of the 
835.  Contractors must translate that flat file into the variable length 835 record for 
transmission to providers or their billing services.  See Chapter 24 for technical 
information about transmission of the 835. 
Contractors are required to: 
• Send the remittance data directly to providers or their designated billing services;   
• Provide sufficient security to protect beneficiaries' privacy.  At the provider's 
request, the contractor may send the 835 through the banking system if its 
Medicare bank and the provider's bank have that capability.  The contractor does 
not allow any party to view beneficiary information, unless authorized by specific 
instructions from CMS see §40.1 for additional information; 
• Issue the remittance advice specifications and technical interface specifications to 
all requesting providers within three weeks of their request.  Interface 
specifications must contain sufficient detail to enable a reasonably knowledgeable 
provider to interpret the RA, without the need to pay the contractor or an 
 5