The PC-Print software enables providers to: 
• Receive, over a wire connection, an 835 electronic remittance advice transmission 
on a personal computer (PC) and write the 835 file in American National 
Standard Code for Information Interchange (ASCII) to the provider's 'A:' drive; 
• Print 835 claims and provider payment summary information; 
• View and print remittance information for a single claim; and 
• View and print a sub-total by bill type. 
The receiving PC always writes an 835 file in ASCII.  The providers may choose one or 
more print options, e.g., the entire transmission, a single claim, a summary by bill type, or 
a provider payment summary.  Since the software performs limited functions, 
malfunctions should rarely occur.  If software malfunctions are detected, they are to be 
corrected through the FISS maintainer.  Individual intermediaries or data centers may not 
modify the PC-Print software. 
Effective with use of HIPAA compliant versions of the 835, carriers and DMERCs are 
not required to issue PC-Print software to providers.  A survey of carriers indicated 
limited use of the NSF versions of PC-Print previously developed.  Providers realize the 
most significant benefits of the 835, such as automatic posting of patient records and 
maintenance of accounts receivables, when they process the data electronically.  When 
providers use the 835 as intended by the designers, they should rarely need hard copies of 
835 data.  Since providers still receive, or can request, SPRs, most carriers and DMERCs 
did not consider it cost effective, to continue to support PC-Print. 
Carriers and DMERCs who consider there to be a local need for PC-Print software as an 
835 marketing tool, to retain current 835 customers, or to respond to other demonstrated 
provider needs have the option to continue to generate PC-Print software.  However, 
carriers and DMERCs who elect to continue to support PC-Print software, must be able 
to demonstrate that the benefits generated from the software exceed their cost to support 
the software.  If they elect to continue to support PC-Print software, the software must 
operate on Windows 95, 98, 2000, and Windows NT platforms and be made available to 
providers free or at cost. 
40.5 - 835 Implementation Guide 
PM A-01-57, Date: April 30, 2001 
(Rev.) 
The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) of 1996 requires that 
Medicare, and all other health insurance payers in the United States, comply with the 
electronic data interchange standards for health care as established by the Secretary of 
Health and Human Services.  The X12N 835 implementation guide has been established 
as the standard for compliance for remittance advice transactions.  The implementation 
 9