entity which could be described by an existing POS code, the providers are to 
use the Mobile Unit POS code 15. Apply the nonfacility rate to payments for 
services designated as being furnished in POS code 15; apply the appropriate 
facility or nonfacility rate for the POS code designated when a code other than 
the mobile unit code is indicated. 
 
A physician or practitioner's office, even if mobile, qualifies to serve as a 
telehealth originating site. Assuming such an office also fulfills the requirement 
that it be located in either a rural health professional shortage area as defined 
under section 332(a)(1)(A) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 
254e(a)(1)(A)) or in a county that is not included in a Metropolitan Statistical 
Area as defined in section 1886(d)(2)(D) of the Act, the originating physician's 
office should use POS code 11 (Office) in order to ensure appropriate payment 
for services on the list of Medicare Telehealth Services. 
 
• Special Considerations for Prison/Correctional Facility Settings (Code 09) 
 
The addition of code 09 to the POS code set and Medicare claims processing 
reflects Medicare’s compliance with HIPAA laws and regulations. Local 
contractors must continue to comply with CMS current policy that does not 
allow payment for Medicare services in a penal institution in most cases. The 
addition of a POS code for a prison/correctional facility setting does not 
supersede this policy.  (See Pub. 100-04, Medicare Claims Processing, section 
10.4, chapter 1.) 
 
• Special Considerations for Walk-In Retail Health Clinic (Code 17) 
(Effective no later than May 1, 2010) 
 
It should be noted that, while some entities in the industry may elect to use POS 
code 17 to track the setting of immunizations, Medicare continues to require its 
billing rules for immunizations claims, which are found in chapter 18, section 
10 of this manual. Contractors are to instruct providers and suppliers of 
immunizations to continue to follow these Medicare billing rules. However, 
Medicare contractors are to accept and adjudicate claims containing POS code 
17, even if its presence on a claim is contrary to these billing instructions. 
 
• Special Considerations for Services Furnished to Registered Inpatients 
 
When a physician/practitioner furnishes services to a registered inpatient, 
payment is made under the PFS at the facility rate. To that end, a 
physician/practitioner/supplier furnishing services to a patient who is a 
registered inpatient, shall, at a minimum, report the inpatient hospital POS code 
21 irrespective of the setting where the patient actually receives the face-to-face 
encounter. In other words, reporting the inpatient hospital POS code 21 is a 
minimum requirement for purposes of triggering the facility payment under the 
PFS when services are provided to a registered inpatient. If the