remittance format changes, 835 version 3051.4A.01 implementation guide changes, or 
PC-Print changes for HH PPS. 
All the statements below on home health billing apply only to type of bills submitted as 
32x, which may be processed as 33x, or what was submitted prior to HH PPS on both 
32x and 33x claims.  Type of bill is reported on form locator 4 on the Form CMS-1450 
(UB-92) claim form. 
70.2 - Payment Methodology of the HH PPS Remittance: HIPPS Codes 
A3-3753 
(Rev.) 
HH PPS episode payment is represented by a HIPPS code on a claim or a Request for 
Anticipated Payment (RAP).  As a general rule, the amount of the first payment for a 60-
day HH PPS episode, made in response to a RAP submitted on a claim form and 
processed like a claim, will be reversed and withheld from the full payment made for the 
episode, in response to a claim, at the end of the 60 days.  Episodes of 4 or fewer visits 
will be paid using standard per visit rates, rather than under HH PPS episode 
methodology. 
Two HIPPS can appear on a single line item.  This new feature is used for HH PPS when, 
during processing, Medicare finds payment should have been made on a HIPPS other 
than the one submitted by the provider.  Standard systems carry the corrected HIPPS in 
the panel code field of the line item.  As noted below, the remittance carries both the 
submitted and paid HIPPS. 
70.3 - Items Not Included in HH PPS Episode Payment 
A3-3753 
(Rev.) 
By law, durable medical equipment (DME) is not included in payment of home health 
PPS episodes, though episodes are global payment for most other home health services 
and items.  DME must be reported in a separate line/loop for the claim closing an 
episode.  DME may not be included in the Request for Anticipated Payment (RAP) for an 
episode.  DME will continue to be paid under the DME fee schedule as at present.  
Intermediaries continue to pay osteoporosis drug, flu injection, vaccines or outpatient 
benefits delivered by home health agencies, such as splints or casts, separately from 
home health PPS as 34x type of bill claims. 
 
78