top portion in each of the six service lines is shaded and is the location for reporting 
supplemental information.  It is not intended to allow the billing of 12 service lines. 
 
When required to submit NDC drug and quantity information for Medicaid rebates, 
submit the NDC code in the red shaded portion of the detail line item in positions 01 
through position 13.  The NDC is to be preceded with the qualifier N4 and followed 
immediately by the 11 digit NDC code (e.g. N499999999999).  Report the NDC quantity 
in positions 17 through 24 of the same red shaded portion.  The quantity is to be preceded 
by the appropriate qualifier: UN (units), F2 (international units), GR (gram) or ML 
(milliliter).  There are six bytes available for quantity.  If the quantity is less than six 
bytes, left justify and space-fill the remaining positions (e.g., UN2 or F2999999). 
 
Item 24A - Enter a 6-digit or 8-digit (MMDDCCYY) date for each procedure, service, or 
supply.  When "from" and "to" dates are shown for a series of identical services, enter the 
number of days or units in column G.  This is a required field.  Return as unprocessable if 
a date of service extends more than 1 day, and a valid "to" date is not present. 
 
Item 24B - Enter the appropriate place of service code(s) from the list provided in section 
10.5.  Identify the setting, using a place of service code, for each item used or service 
performed.  This is a required field. 
 
NOTE:  When a service is rendered to a patient who is a registered inpatient or an 
outpatient (off campus or on campus) of a hospital, use the inpatient hospital POS code 
21, Off Campus-Outpatient Hospital POS code 19, or On Campus-Outpatient Hospital 
POS code 22, respectively, as discussed in section 10.5 of this chapter. 
 
Item 24C - Medicare providers are not required to complete this item. 
 
Item 24D - Enter the procedures, services, or supplies using the CMS Healthcare 
Common Procedure Coding System (HCPCS) code.  When applicable, show HCPCS 
code modifiers with the HCPCS code.  The CMS-1500 claim form has the capacity to 
capture up to four modifiers. 
 
Enter the specific procedure code without a narrative description.  However, when 
reporting an "unlisted procedure code" or a "not otherwise classified" (NOC) code, 
include a narrative description in item 19 if a coherent description can be given within the 
confines of that box.  Otherwise, an attachment shall be submitted with the claim.  This is 
a required field. 
 
Return as unprocessable if an "unlisted procedure code" or a NOC code is indicated in 
item 24d, but an accompanying narrative is not present in item 19 or on an attachment. 
 
Item 24E - This is a required field.  Enter the diagnosis code reference number or letter 
(as appropriate, per form version) as shown in item 21 to relate the date of service and the 
procedures performed to the primary diagnosis.  Enter only one reference number/letter