• The contractor does not issue an RA for a voided or cancelled claim.  It issues an 
RA for the adjusted claim with "Previously Paid" (CLP04 in the 835) showing the 
amount paid for the voided claim. 
30 - Remittance Balancing 
(Rev.) 
A-01-57, AB-02-067, A-02-070, B-01-35 
The principles of remittance balancing are the same for both paper and electronic 
remittance formats.  Balancing requires that the total paid is equal to the total billed plus 
or minus payment adjustments for a single 835 remittance in accordance with the rules of 
the 835 format.  Specific instructions for each electronic version are included in the 
implementation guides. 
Every HIPAA compliant X12 835 transaction issued by an intermediary or 
carrier/DMERC must comply with the implementation guide (IG) requirements, i.e., 
these remittances must balance at the service, claim and transaction levels.  Back end 
validation must be performed to ensure that these conditions are met. 
Although issuance of out-of-balance RAs is not encouraged, providers have indicated that 
receipt of an out-of-balance RA is preferable to not receiving any RA to explain payment.  
It is permissible on an exception basis for carriers to issue an 835 that does not balance as 
long as immediate action is initiated to correct the problem that created the out-of-
balance situation.  However, these out-of-balance 835s must be rare exceptions, and not 
the rule.  If an out-of-balance 835 is issued, affected physicians, suppliers and 
clearinghouses must be notified of the problem and the expected date of correction .  
Carrier shared system software will treat production of an out-of-balance 835 as a priority 
problem, and will work closely with the carriers and CMS to fix the problem as soon as 
possible. 
Intermediary shared systems must make forced balancing adjustments at the line, claim 
and/or transaction level as applicable to make each 835 transaction balance.  Intermediary 
shared systems must report the amount by which a line or claim is out of balance with 
adjustment reason code A7 (Presumptive Payment Adjustment) at the line or claim level.  
The intermediary shared systems must report the amount by which a transaction is out-of-
balance with reason code CA (manual claim adjustment) as a provider level adjustment 
(PLB).  PLB Medicare composite reason code CS/CA will be reported in this situation. 
A7 and CA may only be used by intermediaries on a temporary exception basis, pending 
intermediary diagnosis of the source of the balancing problem and intermediary shared 
system programming to correct that problem.  Intermediaries must notify effected 
providers and clearinghouses of the problem and the expected date of correction 
whenever A7 or CA is used to force 835s to balance.  The shared systems will treat 
production of an out-of-balance 835 as a priority problem, and will work closely with the 
fiscal intermediaries and CMS to fix the problem as soon as possible. 
 4