per line item.  When multiple services are performed, enter the primary reference 
number/letter for each service. 
 
When using form version 08/05, this reference will be either a 1, or a 2, or a 3, or a 4. 
 
When using form version 02/12, the reference to supply in 24E will be a letter from A-L.  
Otherwise, the instructions above apply. 
 
If a situation arises where two or more diagnoses are required for a procedure code (e.g., 
pap smears), the provider shall reference only one of the diagnoses in item 21. 
 
Item 24F- Enter the charge for each listed service. 
 
Item 24G - Enter the number of days or units.  This field is most commonly used for 
multiple visits, units of supplies, anesthesia minutes, or oxygen volume.  If only one 
service is performed, the numeral 1 must be entered. 
 
Some services require that the actual number or quantity billed be clearly indicated on the 
claim form (e.g., multiple ostomy or urinary supplies, medication dosages, or allergy 
testing procedures).  When multiple services are provided, enter the actual number 
provided. 
 
For anesthesia, show the elapsed time (minutes) in item 24g.  Convert hours into minutes 
and enter the total minutes required for this procedure. 
 
For instructions on submitting units for oxygen claims, see chapter 20, section 130.6 of 
this manual. 
 
Beginning with dates of service on and after January 1, 2011, for ambulance mileage, 
enter the number of loaded miles traveled rounded up to the nearest tenth of a mile up to 
100 miles.  For mileage totaling 100 miles and greater, enter the number of covered miles 
rounded up to the nearest whole number miles.  If the total mileage is less than 1 whole 
mile, enter a “0” before the decimal (e.g. 0.9).  See Pub. 100-04, chapter 15, §20.2 for 
more information on loaded mileage and §30.1.2 for more information on reporting 
fractional mileage. 
 
NOTE:  This field should contain an appropriate numerical value.  The A/B MAC (B) 
should program their system to automatically default "1" unit when the information in 
this field is missing to avoid returning as unprocessable, except on claims for ambulance 
mileage.  For ambulance mileage claims, contractors shall automatically default “0.1” 
unit when total mileage units are missing in this field. 
 
Item 24H - Leave blank.  Not required by Medicare. 
 
Item 24I - Leave Blank. Not required by Medicare.