services in a single APC on the line for the first listed service in that APC.  Since the 
payment for the entire APC will be higher than for that procedure code alone, 
Intermediaries must enter group code OA (other adjustment) and reason code 94 
(processed in excess of charges) for the amount of the excess (difference between the 
billed amount for the service and the allowed rate for the APC) as a negative amount to 
enable the line and claim to balance.  They report the remaining procedures for that APC 
on the following lines of the remittance advice with group code CO and reason code 97 
(payment included in the allowance for another service/procedure) for each.  They repeat 
the process if there are multiple APCs for the same claim. 
For Home Health, there may be situations in which a beneficiary is under a home health 
plan of care, but Common Working File (CWF) does not yet have a record of either a 
request for anticipated payment or a home health claim for the episode of care.  To help 
inform therapy providers that the services they performed may be subject to consolidated 
billing, provide the following remark code on the remittance advice for the conditions 
noted. 
Remark 
Code 
Message Conditions for Use 
N116 This payment is being made 
conditionally because the service was 
provided in the home, and it is 
possible that the patient is under a 
home health episode of care.  When a 
patient is treated under a home health 
episode of care, consolidated billing 
requires that certain therapy services 
and supplies, such as this, be included 
in the home health agency's (HHA's) 
payment.  This payment will need to 
be recouped from you if we establish 
that the patient is concurrently 
receiving treatment under an HHA 
episode of care. 
Provide this message on a 
remittance advice when CWF 
indicates that the service is payable, 
and all three of the following 
conditions are true:  
1.  The place of service is "12 
home."  
2.  The HCPCS code is a therapy 
code subject to home health 
consolidated billing (refer to the 
most recent PM announcing affected 
services and codes).   
3.  The CWF has not returned a 
message indicating the presence of a 
request for anticipated payment 
(RAP). 
70.1- Scope of Remittance Changes for HH PPS 
A3-3753 
(Rev.) 
Additional HH PPS changes in specific versions of the electronic remittance format are 
presented in the next few subsections of this manual, and are additions to joint 
requirements with OPPS in ยง70.  However, CMS will not make additional paper 
 
77