(POS 22)), the patient’s physician or nonphysician practitioner or hospice 
independent attending physician or nurse practitioner, shall assign the POS 
code that represents that setting, as appropriate. 
 
There may be use of nursing homes as the hospice patient’s “home,” where the 
patient resides in the facility but is receiving a home level of care. In addition, 
hospices are also operating “houses” or hospice residential entities where 
hospice patients receive a home level of care. In these cases, physicians and 
nonphysician practitioners, including the patient’s independent attending 
physician or nurse practitioner, shall use the appropriate POS code representing 
the particular setting, e.g., POS code 32 for nursing home, POS code 13 for an 
assisted living facility, or POS code 14 for group home. 
 
• Special Considerations for Non-residential Opioid Treatment Facility (Code 
58) 
 
NOTE: OUD treatment services furnished at Opioid Treatment Programs are not 
considered physician services and are separately paid under the bundled payment 
established under sections 1833(a)(1)(CC) and 1834(w) of the Social Security 
Act. 
 
• Paper Claims 
 
Adjudicate paper claims with codes from the National POS code set as you 
would for electronic claims. 
 
 
 
10.6 - A/B Medicare Administrative Contractor (MAC) (B) Instructions 
for Place of Service (POS) Codes 
(Rev. 3490, Issued: 04-01-16, Effective: 04-25-16, Implementation: 04-25-16) 
 
For purposes of payment under the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule (MPFS), the POS 
code is generally used to reflect the actual setting where the beneficiary receives the face-
to-face service.  For example, if the physician’s face-to-face encounter with a patient 
occurs in the office, the correct POS code on the claim, in general, reflects the 2-digit 
POS code 11 for office.  In these instances, the 2-digit POS code (Item 24B on the claim 
Form CMS-1500) will match the address and ZIP entered in the service location (Item 32 
on the 1500 Form) – the physical/geographical location of the physician.  However, there 
are two exceptions to this general rule – these are for a service rendered to a patient who 
is a registered inpatient or an outpatient of a hospital.  In these cases, the correct POS 
code -- regardless of where the face-to-face service occurs -- is that of the appropriate 
inpatient POS code (at a minimum POS code 21) or that of the appropriate outpatient 
hospital POS code (at a minimum POS code 19 or 22, for outpatient services performed 
off campus or on campus) as discussed in section 10.5 of this chapter.  So, if in the above 
example, the patient seen in the physician’s office is actually an inpatient of the hospital,