Item 7 - Enter the insured's address and telephone number.  When the address is the same 
as the patient's, enter the word SAME.  Complete this item only when items 4, 6, and 11 
are completed. 
 
Item 8 - Form version 08/05: Check the appropriate box for the patient's marital status 
and whether employed or a student. 
 
Form version 02/12:  Leave blank. 
 
Item 9 - Enter the last name, first name, and middle initial of the enrollee in a Medigap 
policy if it is different from that shown in item 2.  Otherwise, enter the word SAME.  If 
no Medigap benefits are assigned, leave blank.  This field may be used in the future for 
supplemental insurance plans. 
 
NOTE:  Only participating physicians and suppliers are to complete item 9 and its 
subdivisions and only when the beneficiary wishes to assign his/her benefits under a 
MEDIGAP policy to the participating physician or supplier. 
 
Participating physicians and suppliers must enter information required in item 9 and its 
subdivisions if requested by the beneficiary.  Participating physicians/suppliers sign an 
agreement with Medicare to accept assignment of Medicare benefits for all Medicare 
patients.  A claim for which a beneficiary elects to assign his/her benefits under a 
Medigap policy to a participating physician/supplier is called a mandated Medigap 
transfer.  (See chapter 28.) 
 
Medigap - Medigap policy meets the statutory definition of a "Medicare supplemental 
policy" contained in ยง1882(g)(1) of title XVIII of the Social Security Act (the Act) and 
the definition contained in the NAIC Model Regulation that is incorporated by reference 
to the statute.  It is a health insurance policy or other health benefit plan offered by a 
private entity to those persons entitled to Medicare benefits and is specifically designed 
to supplement Medicare benefits.  It fills in some of the "gaps" in Medicare coverage by 
providing payment for some of the charges for which Medicare does not have 
responsibility due to the applicability of deductibles, coinsurance amounts, or other 
limitations imposed by Medicare.  It does not include limited benefit coverage available 
to Medicare beneficiaries such as "specified disease" or "hospital indemnity" coverage.  
Also, it explicitly excludes a policy or plan offered by an employer to employees or 
former employees, as well as that offered by a labor organization to members or former 
members. 
 
Do not list other supplemental coverage in item 9 and its subdivisions at the time a 
Medicare claim is filed.  Other supplemental claims are forwarded automatically to the 
private insurer if the private insurer contracts with the A/B MAC (B) or DME MAC to 
send Medicare claim information electronically.  If there is no such contract, the 
beneficiary must file his/her own supplemental claim.