Qualifier Provider Role 
DK  Ordering Provider  
DQ  Supervising Provider 
 
Enter the qualifier to the left of the dotted vertical line on item 17. 
 
NOTE:  Under certain circumstances, Medicare permits a non-physician practitioner to 
perform these roles.  Refer to Pub 100-02, Medicare Benefit Policy Manual, chapter 15 
for non-physician practitioner rules.  Enter non-physician practitioner information 
according to the rules above for physicians. 
 
The term "physician" when used within the meaning of §1861(r) of the Act and used in 
connection with performing any function or action refers to: 
 
1. A doctor of medicine or osteopathy legally authorized to practice medicine and 
surgery by the State in which he/she performs such function or action; 
 
2. A doctor of dental surgery or dental medicine who is legally authorized to practice 
dentistry by the State in which he/she performs such functions and who is acting 
within the scope of his/her license when performing such functions; 
 
3. A doctor of podiatric medicine for purposes of §§(k), (m), (p)(1), and (s) and 
§§1814(a), 1832(a)(2)(F)(ii), and 1835 of the Act, but only with respect to functions 
which he/she is legally authorized to perform as such by the State in which he/she 
performs them; 
 
4. A doctor of optometry, but only with respect to the provision of items or services 
described in §1861(s) of the Act which he/she is legally authorized to perform as a 
doctor of optometry by the State in which he/she performs them; or 
 
5. A chiropractor who is licensed as such by a State (or in a State which does not 
license chiropractors as such), and is legally authorized to perform the services of a 
chiropractor in the jurisdiction in which he/she performs such services, and who 
meets uniform minimum standards specified by the Secretary, but only for purposes 
of §§1861(s)(1) and 1861(s)(2)(A) of the Act, and only with respect to treatment by 
means of manual manipulation of the spine (to correct a subluxation).  For the 
purposes of §1862(a)(4) of the Act and subject to the limitations and conditions 
provided above, chiropractor includes a doctor of one of the arts specified in the 
statute and legally authorized to practice such art in the country in which the inpatient 
hospital services (referred to in §1862(a)(4) of the Act) are furnished. 
 
Referring physician - is a physician who requests an item or service for the beneficiary 
for which payment may be made under the Medicare program. 
 
Ordering physician - is a physician or, when appropriate, a non-physician practitioner 
who orders non-physician services for the patient.  See Pub. 100-02, Medicare Benefit