Form version 02/12:  provide this information to the right of the vertical dotted line. 
 
Item 11c - Enter the 9-digit PAYERID number of the primary insurer.  If no PAYERID 
number exists, then enter the complete primary payer's program or plan name.  If the 
primary payer's EOB does not contain the claims processing address, record the primary 
payer's claims processing address directly on the EOB.  This is required if there is 
insurance primary to Medicare that is indicated in item 11. 
 
Item 11d - Leave blank.  Not required by Medicare. 
 
Item 12 - The patient or authorized representative must sign and enter either a 6-digit 
date (MM | DD | YY), 8-digit date (MM | DD | CCYY), or an alpha-numeric date (e.g., 
January 1, 1998) unless the signature is on file.  In lieu of signing the claim, the patient 
may sign a statement to be retained in the provider, physician, or supplier file in 
accordance with Chapter 1, “General Billing Requirements.”  If the patient is physically 
or mentally unable to sign, a representative specified in chapter 1, may sign on the 
patient's behalf.  In this event, the statement's signature line must indicate the patient's 
name followed by “by” the representative's name, relationship to the patient, and the 
reason the patient cannot sign.  The authorization is effective indefinitely unless the 
patient or the patient's representative revokes this arrangement. 
 
NOTE: This can be "Signature on File" and/or a computer generated signature. 
 
The patient's signature authorizes release of medical information necessary to process the 
claim.  It also authorizes payment of benefits to the provider of service or supplier when 
the provider of service or supplier accepts assignment on the claim. 
 
Signature by Mark (X) - When an illiterate or physically handicapped enrollee signs by 
mark, a witness must enter his/her name and address next to the mark. 
 
Item 13 - The patient’s signature or the statement “signature on file” in this item 
authorizes payment of medical benefits to the physician or supplier.  The patient or 
his/her authorized representative signs this item or the signature must be on file 
separately with the provider as an authorization.  However, note that when payment 
under the Act can only be made on an assignment-related basis or when payment is for 
services furnished by a participating physician or supplier, a patient’s signature or a 
“signature on file” is not required in order for Medicare payment to be made directly to 
the physician or supplier. 
 
The presence of or lack of a signature or “signature on file” in this field will be indicated 
as such to any downstream coordination of benefits trading partners (supplemental 
insurers) with whom CMS has a payer-to-payer coordination of benefits relationship.  
Medicare has no control over how supplemental claims are processed, so it is important 
that providers accurately address this field as it may affect supplemental payments to 
providers and/or their patients.