Medicare contractors shall not add any specialty codes to the list.  They must send all 
requests for expansion of the specialty code list to the Director, Division of Practitioner 
Services, at the address above. 
 
B. When considering a request for expanding the specialty code list for physician and 
non-physician practitioners, CMS will take into consideration the following: 
 
• Whether the requested specialty has the authority to bill Medicare independently; 
 
• The requester’s stated reason or purpose for the code; 
 
• Evidence that the practice pattern of the specialty is markedly different from that 
of the dominant parent specialty; 
 
• Evidence of any specialized training and/or certification required; 
 
• Whether the specialty treats a significant volume of the Medicare population; 
 
• Whether the specialty is recognized by another organization, such as the 
American Board of Medical Specialties; and 
 
• Whether the specialty has a corresponding Healthcare Provider Taxonomy Code. 
 
Physicians may not have a specialty code of 70 (single or multi-specialty Clinic or Group 
Practice.)  Contractors must contact physicians whose records indicate specialty code 70 
and require the physicians to update their enrollment records by submitting a CMS-8551 
with a specialty that is valid for a physician. 
 
10.8.1 - Assigning Specialty Codes by A/B MACs (B) and DME MACs 
 
Physicians are allowed to choose a primary and a secondary specialty code.  If the A/B 
MAC (B) and DME MAC provider file can accommodate only one specialty code, the 
A/B MAC (B) or DME MAC assigns the code that corresponds to the greater amount of 
allowed charges.  For example, if the practice is 50 percent ophthalmology and 50 
percent otolaryngology, the A/B MAC (B)/DME MAC compares the total allowed 
charges for the previous year for ophthalmology and otolaryngology services.  They 
assign the code that corresponds to the greater amount of the allowed charges. 
 
10.8.2 - Physician Specialty Codes 
(Rev. 12456; Issued:01-11-24; Effective:07-01-24; Implementation:07-01-24) 
 
Code Physician Specialty 
01 General Practice 
02 General Surgery 
03 Allergy/Immunology 
04 Otolaryngology