Legend Description 
(MMDDYY) or (MMDDCCYY) No space must be reported between month, 
day, and year (e.g., 121598 or 12151998).  
The date must be recorded as one 
continuous number. 
 
10.1 - Claims That are Incomplete or Contain Invalid Information 
(Rev. 145, 04-23-04) 
 
If a claim is submitted with incomplete or invalid information, it may be returned to the 
submitter as unprocessable.  See Chapter 1 for definitions and instructions concerning the 
handling of incomplete or invalid claims. 
 
10.2 - Items 1-11 - Patient and Insured Information 
(Rev. 4232, Issued: 02-08-19, Effective: 03-12-19, Implementation: 03-12-19) 
 
The term Medicare beneficiary identifier (Mbi) is a general term describing a 
beneficiary's Medicare identification number. For purposes of this manual, Medicare 
beneficiary identifier references both the Health Insurance Claim Number (HICN) and 
the Medicare Beneficiary Identifier (MBI) during the new Medicare card transition 
period and after for certain business areas that will continue to use the HICN as part of 
their processes. 
 
Item 1 - Shows the type of health insurance coverage applicable to this claim by the 
appropriately checked box; check the Medicare box. 
 
Item 1a - Enter the patient's Medicare beneficiary identifier whether Medicare is the 
primary or secondary payer.  This is a required field. 
 
Item 2 - Enter the patient's last name, first name, and middle initial, if any, as shown on 
the patient's Medicare card.  This is a required field. 
 
Item 3 - Enter the patient's 8-digit birth date (MM | DD | CCYY) and sex. 
 
Item 4 - If there is insurance primary to Medicare, either through the patient's or spouse's 
employment or any other source, list the name of the insured here.  When the insured and 
the patient are the same, enter the word SAME.  If Medicare is primary, leave blank. 
 
Item 5 - Enter the patient's mailing address and telephone number.  On the first line enter 
the street address; the second line, the city and state; the third line, the ZIP code and 
phone number. 
 
Item 6 - Check the appropriate box for patient's relationship to insured when item 4 is 
completed.