Changes to this code list occur more frequently than the version changes for the 835 
standard.  However, the most current list can be used in any Medicare-recognized version 
of the 835 standard and the SPRs. 
Any reference to procedures or services in the CAS reason codes apply equally to 
products, drugs, supplies or equipment.  References to prescriptions also include 
certificates of medical necessity (CMNs).   
These reason codes report the reasons for any claim financial adjustments, such as 
denials, reductions or increases in payment.  CAS reason codes may be used at the 
service or claim level, as appropriate.  Multiple CAS reason codes may be entered for 
each service or claim as warranted. 
Early in the history of CAS reason codes, some codes, such as codes 69-83 were 
implemented for informational rather than adjustment purposes.  However, these codes 
and their amounts interfered with balancing of the remittance data.  Approval of new 
codes is now limited to those that involve an adjustment from the amount billed.  There 
are basic criteria that the Health Care Code Maintenance Committee considers when 
evaluating requests for new codes: 
• Can the information be conveyed by the use or modification of an existing CAS 
reason code? 
• Is the information available elsewhere in the 835? 
• Will the addition of the new CAS reason code make any significant difference in 
the action taken by the provider who receives the message? 
The list of Adjustment Reason Codes can be found at  
http://www.wpc-edi.com/ClaimAdjustment_40.asp.  This list is updated every four 
months based on the outcome of each Health Care Code Maintenance Committee 
meeting held before X12 trimester meeting in February, June, and October.  The updated 
list is published in the months of March, July and November.  Medicare contractors must 
download the list after each update to make sure they are using the latest approved 
adjustment reason codes in 835 and standard paper remittance advice transactions. 
Individual carriers and intermediaries are responsible for entering claim adjustment 
reason code updates to their standard system and entry of parameters for standard system 
use to determine how and when particular codes are to be reported in remittance advice 
transactions.  In most cases, remittance and remark codes reported in remittance advice 
transactions are mapped to alternate codes used by a standard system.  These standard 
system codes may exceed the number of the reason and remark codes approved for 
reporting in a remittance advice transaction.  A particular 835 reason or remark code 
might be mapped to one or more standard system codes, or vice versa, making it difficult 
for a carrier or intermediary to determine each of the internal codes that may be impacted 
by remark or reason code modification, retirement or addition. 
Standard systems must provide a crosswalk between the reason and remark codes to the 
standard system internal codes so that a carrier or intermediary can easily locate and 
 
72