40.3 - Electronic Remittance Advice Data Sent to Banks 
A3-3751, A-01-057, A-02-070, AB-02-067, B-01-35 
(Rev.) 
Under the HIPAA Privacy requirements, U.S.  health care payers are prohibited from 
sending table two 835 data (portion of 835 containing protected patient health care 
information) (or protected patient health care information in any other paper or electronic 
format) to a bank (see §40.5.1), unless: 
• That bank also functions as a health care data clearinghouse; 
• The provider has authorized the bank as a health care data clearinghouse to 
receive that data; and  
• The bank has signed an agreement to safeguard the privacy and security of the 
data.   
The definition of a financial clearinghouse, as used by banks for transfer of funds, differs 
from the definition of health care data clearinghouse as used by HIPAA.  The HIPAA 
definition must be met if a bank is to be authorized for receipt of table two or equivalent 
patient health care data. 
Table two contains protected patient information that is not approved for release to a 
bank that is not an authorized health care data clearinghouse.  A nonhealth data 
clearinghouse bank cannot receive 835 data, except as provided in table one. 
40.4 - Medicare Standard Electronic PC-Print Software 
A3-3751, A-01-57 
(Rev.) 
PC-Print software enables providers to print remittance data transmitted by Medicare.  
Intermediaries are required to make PC-Print software available to providers at no 
charge.  This software must be able to operate on Windows-95, 98, 2000/Me, and 
Windows NT platforms, and include self-explanatory loading and use information for 
providers.  It should not be necessary to furnish providers training for use of PC-Print 
software. 
Intermediaries must supply providers with PC-Print software within three weeks of 
request.  The Fiscal Intermediary Shared System (FISS) maintainer will supply PC-Print 
software and a user's guide for all intermediaries.  The FISS maintainer must assure that 
the PC-Print software is modified as needed to correspond to updates in the ERA and 
SPR formats.   
Providers are responsible for any telecommunication costs associated with receipt of the 
835, but the software itself is provided at no cost. 
 8