guide for the current HIPAA compliant version of the 835 is available electronically at 
http://www.wpc-edi.com/hipaa. 
Although that implementation guide contains requirements for use of specific segments 
and data elements within the segments, the guide was written for use by all health benefit 
payers, and not specifically for Medicare.  However, a Companion Document was 
prepared by CMS to clarify when conditional data elements and segments must be used 
for Medicare reporting, and identify those codes and data elements that never apply to 
Medicare and which may not be used in Medicare remittance advice transactions. 
Section 40.5.1 is a copy of the "Medicare X12N 835 Version 4010.A.1 HIPAA 
Companion Document." This document itemizes the Medicare requirements for use of 
specific segments, data elements, and codes in the 835, and maps the flat file to the 
corresponding 835 version 4010/4010.A.1  segments and data elements.  For information 
about the structure of the X12N format (i.e., definitions of segments, loops, and elements) 
or definitions for specific codes see the Implementation Guide. 
When reviewing the Companion Document, keep in mind the following information 
about loop usage (e.g., required, not used, and situational definitions).  For additional 
information on this subject see the Implementation Guide: 
• Loop usage within ASC X12 transactions and their implementation guides can be 
confusing.  Care must be used to read the loop requirements in terms of the 
context or location within the transaction.  The usage designator of a loop's 
beginning segment indicates the usage of the loop.  Segments within a loop 
cannot be sent without the beginning segment of that loop. 
• If the first segment is Required, the loop must occur at least once unless it is 
nested in a loop that is not being used.  A note on the Required first segment of a 
nested loop will indicate dependency on the higher-level loop. 
• If the first segment is Situational, there will be a Segment Note addressing use of 
the loop.  Any required segments in loops beginning with a Situational segment 
only occur when the loop is used.  Similarly, nested loops only occur when the 
higher-level loop is used. 
40.5.1 - Medicare 835 HIPAA Companion Document - Intermediaries 
(Rev.) 
AB-02-067, A-02-070, AB-01-149, AB-01-159, AB-01-79, A-03-005 
This companion document supplements, but does not contradict any requirements in the 
835 version 4010.A.1 implementation guide. 
 10