by the FISS.  Current versions of the SPR and ERA continue to report claims-
level summary data. 
• 2-062-AMT02 modified to allow reporting of either inpatient or partial 
hospitalization per diem.  Intermediaries also report the amount of any outlier 
determined payable for the claim, by the Outpatient Prospective Payment 
System (OPPS) and Home Health (HH) Prospective Payment System (PPS) 
Medicare Contractor PRICER software (PRICER software calculates a 
payment amount), in a separate AMT loop with 'ZZ' in AMT01 and the outlier 
amount in AMT02. 
• 2-100.A-REF and REF02 modified to allow service line reporting of the 
Ambulatory Payment Classification (APC) and the Health Insurance 
Prospective Payment System (HIPPS), representing a Home Health Resource 
Group (HHRG) for HH PPS) group numbers.  The APC will supplant the 
Ambulatory Surgical Center (ASC) group for outpatient hospital claims paid 
under PPS. 
• 2-100.B-REF modified to allow service line reporting of the home health 
payment percentage.  This segment applies to ASC and Home Health PPS 
payments, but does not apply to APC payments. 
• 2-110.A-AMT modified to allow service line reporting of the allowed amount 
for APC and home health HIPPS payments.   
For OPPS, the standard provider level adjustment reason codes in Appendix B have been 
expanded to include the X12 835 code of BN (bonus) for the reporting of transitional 
OPPS payments (TOPS payments).  This is a claim level segment and must be reported.  
TOPS payments will be discontinued after December 2003 for all but specified children’s 
and cancer hospitals. 
For OPPS, Intermediaries treat the amount determined payable for an OPPS service, 
whether APC, average wholesale price (AWP), etc., as the allowed amount for a service. 
For OPPS, Intermediaries report services that do not have a related APC, and which are 
considered to be included in the payment for one or more other APCs, with Group Code 
CO and reason code 97 (payment included in the allowance for another 
service/procedure).  If a non-APC service on the same claim is denied for another reason, 
such as not reasonable or necessary (CO 50), they report the specific reason code that 
applies to that denial rather than CO 97. 
For OPPS, Intermediaries use the 835 bundling methodology  to report APC payment 
when multiple HCPCS are included in a single APC.  When bundling services into an 
APC grouping, they report service line information back to a provider in the same way as 
billed, so the provider may automatically identify the services involved and post payment 
information to  patient accounts. 
For OPPS, Intermediaries report each procedure billed in a remittance advice, even if 
bundled for payment into a single APC.  However, they report the payment for all of the 
 
76