For foreign claims, only the enrollee can file for Part B benefits rendered outside of the 
United States.  These claims will not include a valid ZIP code.  When a claim is received 
for these services on a beneficiary submitted Form CMS-1490S, before the claim is 
entered in the system, it should be determined if it is a foreign claim.  If it is a foreign 
claim, follow instructions in chapter 1 for disposition of the claim.  The A/B MAC (B) 
processing the foreign claim will have to make necessary accommodations to verify that 
the claim is not returned as unprocessable due to the lack of a ZIP code. 
 
For durable medical, orthotic, and prosthetic claims, the name and address of the location 
where the order was accepted must be entered (DME MAC only).  This field is required.  
When more than one supplier is used, a separate CMS-1500 claim form shall be used to 
bill for each supplier.  This item is completed whether the supplier's personnel performs 
the work at the physician's office or at another location. 
 
If the supplier is a certified mammography screening center, enter the 6-digit FDA 
approved certification number. 
 
Complete this item for all laboratory work performed outside a physician's office.  If an 
independent laboratory is billing, enter the place where the test was performed. 
 
Item 32a - If required by Medicare claims processing policy, enter the NPI of the service 
facility. 
 
Effective for claims submitted with a receipt date on and after October 1, 2015, the 
billing physician or supplier must report the name, address, and NPI of the performing 
physician or supplier on the claim on reference laboratory claims, even if the performing 
physician or supplier is enrolled in a different A/B MAC (B) jurisdiction.  See Pub. 100-
04, Chapter 1, ยง10.1.1 for more information regarding claims filing jurisdiction. 
 
Item 32b - Effective May 23, 2008, Item 32b is not to be reported. 
 
Item 33 - Enter the provider of service/supplier's billing name, address, ZIP code, and 
telephone number.  This is a required field. 
 
Item 33a - Enter the NPI of the billing provider or group.  This is a required field. 
 
Item 33b - Item 33b is not generally reported.  However, for some Medicare policies you 
may be instructed to use this item; direction as to how to use this item will be in the 
instructions you received regarding the specific policy, if applicable. 
 
 
10.5 - Place of Service Codes (POS) and Definitions 
(Rev. 12779; Issued: 08-09-24; Effective: 08-01-24; Implementation Date: 01-06-25)  
 
o HIPAA