downloaded without charge from http://www.wpc-edi.com/HIPAA.  Anyone wanting to 
download this file is required to set up a user name and password for this site.  Follow the 
instructions on the site to setup a new account and download this file. 
Addenda to the implementation guides have also been published, these addenda can be 
found at http://hipaa.wpc-edi.com/HIPAAAddenda_40.asp. 
By January 2, 2002, intermediaries, carriers, and DMERCs had to be able to issue 
HIPAA compliant 835 version 4010 transactions in production mode to any provider or 
clearinghouse that requested production data in that version.  Here after, all contractors 
must upgrade to most current versions as directed by program memoranda.  HIPAA 
requires CMS policy to change such that only one version of electronic formats will be 
maintained, not the version and previous version as before HIPAA. 
Effective October 2002, unless a provider has requested that Medicare revert to issuance 
of Standard Paper Remittance (SPR) only, non-HIPAA compliant 835, National Standard 
Format (NSF), and Uniform Billing 92 (UB-92) remittance recipients are automatically 
sent production HIPAA compliant 835 transactions. 
20 - General Remittance Completion Requirements 
(Rev.) 
A3-3750 
The following general field completion and calculation rules apply to both paper and 
electronic versions of the remittance advice, except as otherwise noted.  See the current 
implementation guide for specific requirements: 
• Any adjustment applied to the submitted charge and/or units must be reported in 
the claim and/or service adjustment segments with the appropriate group, reason, 
and remark codes explaining the adjustments.  Every provider level adjustment 
must likewise be reported in the provider level adjustment section of the 
remittance advice.  Intermediary RAs do not report service line adjustment data,  
only summary claim level adjustment information. 
• The computed field "Net" must include "ProvPd" (Calculated Pmt to Provider, 
CLP04 in the 835) and interest, late filing charges and previously paid amounts. 
• The Medicare contractor reports only the name of the immediately subsequent 
payer on the remittance advice, even if coordination of benefits (COB) 
information is sent to more than one payer.  (The current HIPAA compliant 
version does not have the capacity to report more than one crossover carrier.)  
• The check amount is the sum of all claim-level payments, including claims and 
service-level adjustments, less any provider level adjustments. 
• Positive adjustment amounts reduce the amount of the payment and negative 
adjustment amounts increase it. 
 3