physician/practitioner is aware of the exact setting the beneficiary is a 
registered inpatient, the appropriate inpatient POS code may be reported 
consistent with the code list annotated in this section (instead of POS 21). For 
example, a physician/practitioner may use POS 31, for a patient in a SNF 
receiving inpatient skilled nursing care, POS 51, for a patient registered in a 
Psychiatric Inpatient Facility, and POS 61 for patients registered in a 
Comprehensive Inpatient Rehabilitation Facility. 
 
• Special Considerations for Outpatient Hospital Departments 
 
The place of service (POS) code for “Outpatient Hospital” has been expanded. 
The description of POS 22 has been revised from “Outpatient Hospital” to “On 
Campus-Outpatient Hospital” and POS 19 has been created for the “Off 
Campus- Outpatient Hospital” setting. Throughout this Internet Only Manual 
(IOM) you may find references to “Outpatient Hospital” that do not 
differentiate between the “On Campus” or “Off Campus” setting; however, any 
reference to POS 22 (formerly “Outpatient Hospital”) found anywhere within 
the IOM is now defined as “On Campus-Outpatient Hospital.” In addition, POS 
19 will also apply in the majority of situations describing an outpatient hospital 
setting.  When a physician/practitioner furnishes services to an outpatient of a 
hospital, payment is made under the PFS at the facility rate. 
Physicians/practitioners who furnish services to a hospital outpatient, including 
in a hospital outpatient department (including in a provider-based department 
of that hospital) or under arrangement to a hospital shall, at a minimum, report 
the off campus-outpatient hospital POS code 19 or on campus-outpatient 
hospital POS code 22 irrespective of the setting where the patient actually 
receives the face-to-face encounter. In other words, reporting the outpatient 
hospital POS code 19 or 22 is a minimum requirement for purposes of 
triggering the facility payment amount under the PFS when services are 
provided to a registered outpatient. If the physician/practitioner is aware of the 
exact setting where the beneficiary is a registered hospital outpatient, the 
appropriate outpatient facility POS code may be reported consistent with the 
code list annotated in this section (instead of POS 19 or 22). 
For example, physicians/practitioners may use POS code 23 for services 
furnished to a patient registered in the emergency room, POS 24 for patients 
registered in an ambulatory surgical center, and POS 56 for patients registered 
in a psychiatric residential treatment center. 
 
NOTE: Physicians/practitioners who perform services in a hospital 
outpatient department shall use, at a minimum, POS code 19 (Off 
Campus- Outpatient Hospital) or POS code 22 (On Campus-Outpatient 
Hospital). 
Code 19 or 22 (or other appropriate outpatient department POS code as 
described above) shall be used unless the physician maintains separate office 
space in the hospital or on the hospital campus and that physician office space 
is not considered a provider-based department of the hospital as defined in 42.