NOTE:  Effective May 23, 2008, all provider identifiers submitted on the CMS-1500 
claim form MUST be in the form of an NPI. 
 
Method II suppliers shall enter the most current HCT value for the injection of Aranesp 
for ESRD beneficiaries on dialysis.  (See Pub. 100-04, chapter 8, section 60.7.2.) 
 
Individuals and entities who bill A/B MACs (B) for administrations of ESAs or Part B 
anti-anemia drugs not self-administered (other than ESAs) in the treatment of cancer 
must enter the most current hemoglobin or hematocrit test results.  The test results shall 
be entered as follows: TR= test results (backslash), R1=hemoglobin, or R2=hematocrit 
(backslash), and the most current numeric test result figure up to 3 numerics and a 
decimal point [xx.x]).  Example for hemoglobin tests: TR/R1/9.0, Example for 
Hematocrit tests: TR/R2/27.0. 
 
Item 20 - Complete this item when billing for diagnostic tests subject to the anti-markup 
payment limitation.  Enter the acquisition price under charges if the "yes" block is 
checked.  A "yes" check indicates that an entity other than the entity billing for the 
service performed the diagnostic test.  A "no" check indicates "no anti-markup tests are 
included on the claim."  When "yes" is annotated, item 32 shall be completed.  When 
billing for multiple anti-markup tests, each test shall be submitted on a separate claim 
form CMS-1500.  Multiple anti-markup tests may be submitted on the ASC X12 837 
electronic format as long as appropriate line level information is submitted when services 
are rendered at different service facility locations.  See chapter 1. 
 
NOTE:  This is a required field when billing for diagnostic tests subject to the anti-
markup payment limitation. 
 
Item 21 - Enter the patient's diagnosis/condition.  With the exception of claims submitted 
by ambulance suppliers (specialty type 59), all physician and nonphysician specialties 
(i.e., PA, NP, CNS, CRNA) use diagnosis codes to the highest level of specificity for the 
date of service.  Enter the diagnoses in priority order.  All narrative diagnoses for 
nonphysician specialties shall be submitted on an attachment. 
 
Reminder:  Do not report ICD-10-CM codes for claims with dates of service prior to 
implementation of ICD-10-CM, on either the old or revised version of the CMS-1500 
claim form. 
 
For form version 08/05, report a valid ICD-9-CM code.  Enter up to four diagnosis codes. 
 
For form version 02/12, it may be appropriate to report either ICD-9-CM or ICD-10-CM 
codes depending upon the dates of service (i.e., according to the effective dates of the 
given code set).  
 
• The “ICD Indicator” identifies the ICD code set being reported.  Enter the 
applicable ICD indicator according to the following: