Ambulance Transport Reason Codes and Statements  
Updated on May 19, 2023 
 
7 
 
AMB6Y Non-payable origin/destination modifiers in Prior Authorization request (scheduled 
service such as physician office to beneficiary's residence).  
AMB8X Ambulance Prior Authorization request submitted without valid modifier(s).  
AMB8Y Ambulance Prior Authorization request submitted with invalid modifier(s) 
combination. 
AMB9Y 
Local Coverage Determinations (LCDs) help Medicare decide what is covered. An 
LCD was used for your PA request. You can compare your case to the LCD, and send 
information from your doctor if you think it could change our decision. Refer to 
Social Security Act (SSA) 1862,  IOM, Medicare Program Integrity Manual, Pub 100-
08, Chapter 3, Section 3.6.2.2. Local Coverage Determinations and Local Coverage 
Articles found at https://www.cms.gov/medicare -coverage-database/new-
search/search.aspx. 
AM11W Prior Authorization request for service is not covered by this payer/contractor. You 
must send the request to the correct payer/contractor.  
AM11X 
This Prior Authorization request was adjusted after records were reviewed and it was 
determined that the documentation did not support the level of service requested (i.e., 
recoding the ambulance service to the level of care that reflects the services rendered, 
or down coding services when the title of the emergency personnel cannot be 
validated). 
AM11Y This Prior Authorization request is a duplicate to another request.  
AM00B The codes of the ambulance trip(s) requested are not specific to the repetitive 
scheduled non-emergent ambulance transports prior authorization demonstration.  
AM00Z The ambulance prior authorization request (explain identified problem).  
AM99A Prior Authorization request was affirmed for fewer trips than requested.  
AM99B Prior Authorization request was affirmed for fewer days than requested.  
   
Reason 
Code PROVIDER ELIGIBILITY 
AMB0A The Ambulance provider is not approved by Medicare.  
AMB0B The Ambulance provider is not eligible for Medicare benefits.  
AMB0C The Ambulance provider is not authorized or eligible to bill for BLS services.  
AMB0Z Provider Eligibility (explain identified problem)  
  
Reason 
Code SIGNATURES 
AMB1G 
Incomplete/invalid or missing signature of the beneficiary, or that of his or her 
representative (for both the purpose of accepting assignment and submitting a claim to 
Medicare). Refer to 42 CFR 424.36 (b) (1-4) (C) Internet Only Manual (IOM), 
Publication 100-02, Medicare Benefit Policy Manual, Chapter 10, Section 20.1.2.  
AMB4B 
Missing/Incomplete/Invalid ambulance supplier signature on ambulance record or 
invalid or no response to signature attestation. Refer to Internet Only Manual (IOM) 
Publication 100-08, Medicare Program Integrity Manual, Chapter 3, Section 3.3.2.4.