Generic Durable Medical Equipment (DME) Reason Codes and Statements 
January 13, 2025 
 
*Updated and/or new codes can be found in bold italic                                                                         8 
 
GDY04 Section C of the Advance Beneficiary Notice contains a Medicare or Social 
Security number. 
GDY05 Section D of the Advance Beneficiary Notice is not properly completed. 
GDY06 Section E of the Advance Beneficiary Notice is not properly completed. 
GDY07 Section E of the Advance Beneficiary Notice indicates a reason Medicare may not pay 
which is unrelated to the denial. 
GDY08 Section E of the Advance Beneficiary Notice does not contain a genuine reason that 
denial by Medicare is expected. 
GDY09 Section E of the Advance Beneficiary Notice is not completed using beneficiary 
friendly language. 
GDY10 Section F of the Advance Beneficiary Notice is not properly completed. 
GDY11 Section G of the Advance Beneficiary Notice is not properly completed. 
GDY12 Section I of the Advance Beneficiary Notice is not signed by the beneficiary (or 
representative). 
GDY13 Section J of the Advance Beneficiary Notice is not properly completed. 
GDY14 The Advance Beneficiary Notice is dated after the date of service. 
GDY15 Generic Advance Beneficiary Notices which do no more than state that Medicare 
denial of payment is possible are not considered to be acceptable. 
GDY16 The Advance Beneficiary Notice is not the most current version of the Centers for 
Medicare & Medicaid Services approved form. 
GDY17 The Advance Beneficiary Notice contains an amendment, correction or delayed entry 
that does not comply with accepted record keeping principles. 
GDY18 Some or all of the Advance Beneficiary Notice is illegible. 
GDY19 The file does not contain a valid Advance Beneficiary Notice. 
GDY1Z The Advance Beneficiary Notice contains an error not otherwise specified. 
 
Reason 
Code FACE-TO-FACE 
GDB02 
The face-to-face encounter is greater than six months prior to the date of the standard 
written order (SWO) required prior to delivery. Refer to 42 CFR 410.38(d)(2) & 
Standard Documentation Requirements A55426. 
GDB03 
The documentation does not include a face-to-face encounter within six months prior 
to the order. Refer to 42 Code of Federal Regulations 410.38 (c) and Standard 
Documentation Requirements A55426.