Generic Durable Medical Equipment (DME) Reason Codes and Statements 
January 13, 2025 
 
*Updated and/or new codes can be found in bold italic                                                                         7 
 
GDW26 The documentation does not specify the procedure code of the requested item, 
therefore eligibility for Prior Authorization cannot be determined. 
GDW27 The requested item is not eligible for Prior Authorization. 
GDW28 The date of the treating physician/practitioner order is prior to the implementation of 
Prior Authorization. 
GDW29 The documentation does not include a valid Medicare Beneficiary Identifier (MBI) 
number. 
GDW30 The documentation does not include a Medicare Beneficiary Identifier (MBI) number. 
GDW31 The documentation demonstrates the requested item has been delivered and is 
therefore not eligible for Prior Authorization. 
GDW32 The beneficiary is excluded for Prior Authorization as there is a Representative Payee 
on file; therefore, claims billed are not subject to the Prior Authorization program. 
GDW33 The Prior Authorization request has been cancelled per the supplier's request 
GDW34 The Prior Authorization resubmission does not include all required documentation. 
GDW35 The Prior Authorization submission does not include a beneficiary name. 
GDW36 The Prior Authorization request documentation indicates the beneficiary is deceased. 
GDW37 A previously affirmative determination has been made on the Prior Authorized item 
requested for this beneficiary. 
GDW38 The Prior Authorization request coversheet does not include the ordering physician's 
contact information.  
GDW39 The Prior Authorization request {Explanation-of-Problem}. 
GDW40 
No documentation was received in response to the additional documentation request 
(ADR) letter. Refer to Social Security Act (SSA) Title XVIII, Section 1815(a), 
1833(e), & 1862(a)(1)(A). 
GDW1Z The documentation contains an error not otherwise specified. 
 
Reason 
Code ABN STATEMENTS 
GDY01 
The GA modifier was removed as no Advance Beneficiary Notice was provided. Refer 
to ABN Instructions & Medicare Claims Processing Manual 100-04, Chapter 30, 
Section 50. 
GDY02 Section A of the Advance Beneficiary Notice is not properly completed. 
GDY03 Section B of the Advance Beneficiary Notice is not properly completed.