Attachment – Recurring Update Notification 
 
Pub. 100-04 Transmittal: 313 Date: October 15, 2004 Change Request 3466 
 
SUBJECT:  Remittance Advice Remark Code and Claim Adjustment Reason Code Update 
I. GENERAL INFORMATION 
 
A. Background: Per the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) of 1996, 
health plans must be able to conduct standard electronic transactions for transactions mentioned in 
the regulation using valid standardized codes.  These two code sets (Claim Adjustment Reason 
Code and Remittance Advice Remark Code) are used in remittance advice and coordination of 
benefits transactions. 
X12N 835 Health Care Remittance Advice Remark Codes 
The CMS is the national maintainer of the remittance advice remark code list that is one of the 
code lists mentioned in the ASC X12 transaction 835 (Health Care Claim Payment/Advice) 
version 4010A1 Implementation Guide (IG).  Under HIPAA, all payers, including Medicare, have 
to use reason and remark codes approved by X12 recognized maintainers instead of proprietary 
codes to explain any adjustment in the payment.  Approved code changes requested by non-
Medicare entities may not impact Medicare.  Traditionally, Medicare staff in conjunction with a 
policy change, requests remark code changes that impact Medicare.  Contractors are notified of 
those new/modified codes in the corresponding implementation instructions, which implement the 
policy change, in addition to the regular code update notification.  If a modification has been 
initiated by an entity other than Medicare for a code currently used by Medicare, contractors must 
use the modified code even though the modification was not initiated by Medicare.  If a new code 
is not initiated by Medicare, contractors do not have to use it unless otherwise instructed by 
Medicare.  Contractors must stop using codes that have been deactivated on or before the effective 
date specified in the comment section if they are currently being used.  The list is updated three 
times a year, and the complete list of remark codes is available at: 
http://www.wpc-edi.com/codes/Codes.asp
(NOTE: If you find any discrepancy between any code text included in this CR and the 
corresponding text as posted on the WPC Website, use the text posted at the Website.) 
By January 3, 2005, you must have completed entry of all applicable code text changes and new 
codes, and terminated use of deactivated codes.  You must use the latest approved and valid codes 
in your 835, corresponding standard paper remittance advice, and coordination of benefits 
transactions.  The following list summarizes changes made from March 2004 to June 2004.