New reason codes (D16-D20) were added at the request of a group of health care industry 
professionals who identified some situations, that happen frequently, where there is no current 
reason code available. For these situations, remark codes are available, but commercial payers may 
not use the available remark codes. The suggestion was to create a few “temporary” reason codes 
that would be deactivated in the next version, and could be used in lieu of remark codes. Payers 
currently using the appropriate combination of reason and remark codes, do not have to switch and 
start using the new reason codes. Medicare will continue using the combination of reason and 
appropriate remark code as is currently done, and not use the new temporary reason codes.   
 
B. Policy:  For transactions 835 (Health Care Claim Payment/Advice), 837 COB, and standard 
paper remittance advice, there are two code sets – reason and remark code sets – that must be used 
to report payment adjustments, appeal rights, and related information.  These code sets are updated 
on a regular basis.  Medicare contractors must use only currently valid codes, and make the 
necessary changes on a regular basis as per this recurring code update CR or the specific CR that 
describes the change in policy that resulted in the code change. 
 
C. Provider Education:
 
A Medlearn Matters provider education article related to this instruction will be available at 
www.cms.hhs.gov/medlearn/matters shortly after the CR is released.  You will receive notification 
of the article release via the established "medlearn matters" listserv.  Contractors shall post this 
article, or a direct link to this article, on their Web site and include information about it in a listserv 
message within one week of the availability of the provider education article.  In addition, the 
provider education article must be included in your next regularly scheduled bulletin.  Contractors 
are free to supplement Medlearn Matters articles with localized information that would benefit 
their provider community in billing and administering the Medicare program correctly. 
 
II. BUSINESS REQUIREMENTS  
 
“Shall" denotes a mandatory requirement 
"Should" denotes an optional requirement 
 
   
Shared System 
Maintainers FISS 
MCS 
VMS 
CWF 
  
FI 
RHHI 
Carrier 
DMERC 
F 
I 
S
S 
M
C
S 
V
M
S 
C
W
F 
Other 
3466.1 Intermediaries/RHHIs/Carriers/DMERCs and 
VMS shall replace the modified remark codes 
applicable to Medicare by January 3, 2005. 
 
 
X X X X   X