One-Time Notification 
Pub. 100-04 Transmittal:  32 Date:  November 21, 2003 Change Request 2975 
 
SUBJECT:  Remittance Advice Remark Code  and Claim Adjustment Reason Code 
Update 
I.   GENERAL INFORMATION 
This one-time notification updates remark and reason codes for intermediaries, carriers and 
durable medical equipment regional contractors (DMERCs). 
A.  Background: This one-time notification updates remark and reason codes to be inserted 
in the electronic and paper remittance advice by intermediaries, carriers and DMERCs. 
X12N 835 Health Care Remittance Advice Remark Codes 
The CMS is the national maintainer of the remittance advice remark code list that is one of 
the code lists mentioned in ASC X12 transaction 835 (Health Care Claim Payment/Advice) 
version 4010A1 Implementation Guide (IG).  Under the Health Insurance Portability and 
Accountability Act (HIPAA), all payers, including Medicare, have to use reason and remark 
codes approved by X12 recognized maintainers instead of proprietary codes to explain any 
adjustment in the payment.  The CMS receives a significant number of requests for new 
remark codes and modifications in existing remark codes from non-Medicare entities, and 
these additions and modifications may not impact Medicare.  Traditionally, remark code 
changes that impact Medicare are requested by Medicare staff in conjunction with a policy 
change.  Contractors are notified of those new/modified codes in the corresponding 
implementation instructions which implement the policy change, in addition to the regular 
code update notification.  If a modification has been initiated by an entity other than 
Medicare for a code currently used by Medicare, contractors must use the modified code 
even though the modification was not initiated by Medicare.  If a new code is not initiated by 
Medicare, contractors do not have to use it unless otherwise instructed by Medicare.  
Contractors must stop using codes that have been deactivated on or before the effective date 
specified in the comment section if they are currently being used.  The list posted on the two 
Web sites also have the following codes deactivated without any replacement codes: M16, 
MA116, and MA94. Research has revealed that these codes are still being used by Medicare 
contractors, and will be re-activated in the next update.  These codes are not included in this 
document, and contractors do not need to deactivate them. 
The complete list of remark codes is available at: 
http://ww.cms.hhs.gov/providers/edi/hipaadoc.asp 
and  
http://ww.wpc-edi.com/codes/Codes.asp 
The list is updated 3 times a year – in the months following X12 trimester meetings.  By 
January 1, 2004, you must have completed entry of all applicable code text changes, new 
codes, and deactivation of codes that have been deactivated, for use in production, and to 
make sure that you are using the latest approved remark codes as included in any CMS 
instructions in your 835 version 4010A1 and subsequent versions, the corresponding standard