4
M60 Missing/incomplete/invalid Certificate of Medical Necessity. (Modified 6/30/03) 
M86 Service denied because payment already made for some/similar 
procedure within set time frame. 
 
(Modified 6/30/03) 
M117 Not covered unless submitted via electronic claim. 
 
(Modified 6/30/03) 
M129 Missing/incomplete/invalid indi cator of x-ray availability for 
review. 
 
(Modified 6/30/03) 
M134 Performed by a facility/supplie r in which the provider has a 
financial interest. 
 
(Modified 6/30/03) 
MA01 If you do not agree with what we approved for these services, you 
may appeal our decision.  To make sure that we are fair to you, 
we require another individual that did not process your initial 
claim to conduct the review.  However, in order to be eligible for 
a review, you must write to us within 120 days of the date of this 
notice, unless you have a good reason for being late. 
 
An institutional provider, e.g., hospital, skilled nursing facility 
(SNF), home health agency (HHA) or hospice may appeal only if 
the claim involves a reasonable and necessary denial, a SNF 
recertified bed denial, or a home health denial because the patient 
was not homebound or was not in need of intermittent skilled 
nursing services, or a hospice care denial because the patient was 
not terminally ill, and either the patient or the provider is liable 
under Section 1879 of the Social Security Act, and the patient 
chooses not to appeal. 
 
If your carrier issues telephone review decisions, a professional 
provider should phone the carrier’s office for a telephone review 
if the criteria for a telephone review are met. 
 
(Modified 6/30/03) 
MA02 If you do not agree with this de termination, you have the right to 
appeal. You must file a written request for reconsideration within 
120 days of the date of this notice.  Decisions made by a Quality 
Improvement Organization (QIO) must be appealed to that QIO 
within 60 days. 
 
An institutional provider, e.g., hospital, skilled nursing facility 
(SNF), home health agency (HHA) or a hospice may appeal only 
if the claim involves a reasonable and necessary denial, a SNF 
non-certified bed denial, or a home health denial because the 
patient was not homebound or was not in need of intermittent 
skilled nursing services, or a hospice care denial because the 
patient was not terminally ill, and either the patient or the 
provider is liable under Section1879 of the Social Security Act, 
and the patient chooses not to appeal. 
(Modified 6/30/03)