3
M26 Payment has been adjusted because the information furnished 
does not substantiate the need for this level of service. If you have 
collected any amount from the patient for this level of service 
/any amount that exceeds the limiting charge for the less 
extensive service, the law requires you to refund that amount to 
the patient within 30 days of receiving this notice. 
 
The law permits exceptions to the refund requirement in two 
cases: 
• If you did not know, and could not have reasonably been 
expected to know, that we would not pay for this service; 
or 
• If you notified the patient in writing before providing the 
service that you believed that we were likely to deny the 
service, and the patient signed a statement agreeing to pay 
for the service 
 
If you come within either exception, or if you believe the carrier 
was wrong in its determination that we do not pay for this service, 
you should request review of this determination within 30 days of 
the date of this notice.  Your request for review should include 
any additional information necessary to support your position. 
 
If you request review within 30 days of receiving this notice, you 
may delay refunding the amount to the patient until you receive 
the results of the review.  If the review decision is favorable to 
you, you do not need to make any refund.  If, however, the review 
is unfavorable, the law specifies that you must make the refund 
within 15 days of receiving the unfavorable review decision. 
 
The law also permits you to request review at any time within 
120 days of the date of this notice.  However, a review request 
that is received more than 30 days after the date of this notice, 
does not permit you to delay making the refund.  Regardless of 
when a review is requested, the patient will be notified that you 
have requested one, and will receive a copy of the determination. 
 
The patient has received a separate notice of this denial decision.  
The notice advises that he/she may be entitled to a refund of any 
amounts paid, if you should have known that we would not pay 
and did not tell him/her.  It also instructs the patient to contact 
your office if he/she does not hear anything about a refund within 
30 days. 
 
The requirements for refund are in 1842(l) of the Social Security 
Act and 42CFR411.408.  The section specifies that physicians 
who knowingly and willfully fail to make appropriate refunds 
may be subject to civil monetary penalties and/or exclusion from 
the program. 
 
Contact this office if you have any questions about this notice.