1 
 
Remittance Advice Remark Codes Related to the No Surprises Act 
 
Remittance Advice Remark Codes (RARCs) may be used by plans and issuers to 
communicate information about claims to providers and facilities, subject to state law.  
 
The following RARCs related to the No Surprises Act have been approved by the RARC 
Committee and are effective as of March 1, 2022.  
 
For a complete and regularly updated list of RARCs, please see 
https://x12.org/codes/remittance-advice-remark-codes
.    
 
The No Surprises Act Provisions that Apply to the Claim 
RARC # RARC Text 
N864 Alert: This claim is subject to the No Surprises Act provisions that apply to 
emergency services.  
N865 Alert: This claim is subject to the No Surprises Act provisions that apply to 
nonemergency services furnished by nonparticipating providers during a 
patient visit to a participating facility. 
N866 Alert: This claim is subject to the No Surprises Act provisions that apply to 
services furnished by nonparticipating providers of air ambulance 
services. 
 
How Cost Sharing Was Calculated under the No Surprises Act 
RARC # RARC Text 
N862 Alert:  Member cost share is in compliance with the No Surprises Act, and 
is calculated using the lesser of the QPA or billed charge.  
N867 Alert: Cost sharing was calculated based on a specified state law, in 
accordance with the No Surprises Act. 
N868 Alert: Cost sharing was calculated based on an All-Payer Model 
Agreement, in accordance with the No Surprises Act. 
N869 Alert: Cost sharing was calculated based on the qualifying payment 
amount, in accordance with the No Surprises Act. 
N870 Alert: In accordance with the No Surprises Act, cost sharing was based on 
the billed amount because the billed amount was lower than the qualifying 
payment amount. 
 
Initial Payment Amount 
RARC # RARC Text 
N871 Alert: This initial payment was calculated based on a specified state law, 
in accordance with the No Surprises Act.  
N877 Alert: This initial payment is provided in accordance with the No Surprises 
Act. The provider or facility may initiate open negotiation if they desire to 
negotiate a higher out-of-network rate.